CHAPTER 1
Behavioral Science, the FBI section that deals with serial murder, is on the bottom
floor of the Academy building at Quantico, half-buried in the earth. Clarice Starling
reached it flushed after a fast walk from Hogan's Alley on the firing range. She had grass
in her hair and grass stains on her FBI Academy windbreaker from diving to the ground
under fire in an arrest problem on the range.
No one was in the outer office, so she fluffed briefly by her reflection in the glass
doors. She knew she could look all right without primping. Her hands smelled of
gunsmoke, but there was no time to wash--- Section Chief Crawford's summons had said
now.
She found Jack Crawford alone in the cluttered suite of offices. He was standing
at someone else's desk talking on the telephone and she had a chance to look him over for
the first time in a year. What she saw disturbed her.
Normally, Crawford looked like a fit, middle-aged engineer who might have paid
his way through college playing baseball--- a crafty catcher, tough when he blocked the
plate. Now he was thin, his shirt collar was too big, and he had dark puffs under his
reddened eyes. Everyone who could read the papers knew Behavioral Science section
was catching hell. Starling hoped Crawford wasn't on the juice. That seemed most
unlikely here.
Crawford ended his telephone conversation with a sharp "No." He took her file
from under his arm and opened it.
"Starling, Clarice M., good morning," he said.
"Hello." Her smile was only polite.
"Nothing's wrong. I hope the call didn't spook you."
"No." Not totally true, Starling thought.
"Your instructors tell me you're doing well, top quarter of the class."
"I hope so, they haven't posted anything."
"I ask them from time to time."
That surprised Starling; she had written Crawford off as a two-faced recruiting
sergeant son of a bitch.
She had met Special Agent Crawford when he was a guest lecturer at the
University of Virginia. The quality of his criminology seminars was a factor in her
coming to the Bureau. She wrote him a note when she qualified for the Academy, but he
never replied, and for the three months she had been a trainee at Quantico, he had ignored
her.
Starling came from people who do not ask for favors or press for friendship, but
she was puzzled and regretful at Crawford's behavior. Now, in his presence, she liked
him again, she was sorry to note.
Clearly something was wrong with him. There was a peculiar cleverness in
Crawford, aside from his intelligence, and Starling had first noticed it in his color sense
and the textures of his clothing, even within the FBI-clone standards of agent dress. Now
he was neat but drab, as though he were molting.
"A job came up and I thought about you," he said. "It's not really a job, it's more
of an interesting errand. Push Berry's stuff off that chair and sit down. You put down here
that you want to come directly to Behavioral Science when you get through with the
Academy."
"I do."
"You have a lot of forensics, but no law enforcement background. We look for six
years, minimum."
"My father was a marshal, I know the life."
Crawford smiled a little. "What you do have is a double major in psychology and
criminology, and how many summers working in a mental health center--- two?"
"Two."
"Your counselor's license, is it current?"
"It's good for two more years. I got it before you had the seminar at UVA---
before I decided to do this."
"You got stuck in the hiring freeze."
Starling nodded. "I was lucky though--- I found out in time to qualify as a
Forensic Fellow. Then I could work in the lab until the Academy had an opening."
"You wrote to me about coming here, didn't you, and I don't think I answered--- I
know I didn't. I should have."
"You've had plenty else to do."
"Do you know about VI-CAP?"
"I know it's the Violent Criminal Apprehension Program. The Law Enforcement
Bulletin says you're working on a database, but you aren't operational yet."
Crawford nodded. "We've developed a questionnaire. It applies to all the known
serial murderers in modern times." He handed her a thick sheaf of papers in a flimsy
binding. "There's a section for investigators, and one for surviving victims, if any. The
blue is for the killer to answer if he will, and the pink is a series of questions an examiner
asks the killer, getting his reactions as well as his answers. It's a lot of paperwork."
Paperwork. Clarice Starling's self-interest snuffled ahead like a keen beagle. She
smelled a job offer coming--- probably the drudgery of feeding raw data into a new
computer system. It was tempting to get into Behavioral Science in any capacity she
could, but she knew what happens to a woman if she's ever pegged as a secretary--- it
sticks until the end of time. A choice was coming, and she wanted to choose well.
Crawford was waiting for something--- he must have asked her a question.
Starling had to scramble to recall it.
"What tests have you given? Minnesota Multiphasic, ever? Rorschach?"
"Yes, MMPI, never Rorschach," she said. "I've done Thematic Apperception and
I've given children Bender-Gestalt."
"Do you spook easily, Starling?"
"Not yet."
"See, we've tried to interview and examine all the thirty-two known serial
murderers we have in custody, to build up a database for psychological profiling is
unsolved cases. Most of them went along with it--- I think they're driven to show off, a
lot of them. Twenty-seven were willing to cooperate. Four on death row with appeals
pending clammed up, understandably. But the one we want the most, we haven't been
able to get. I want you to go after him tomorrow in the asylum."
Clarice Starling felt a glad knocking in her chest and some apprehension too.
"Who's the subject?"
"The psychiatrist--- Dr. Hannibal Lecter," Crawford said.
A brief silence follows the name, always, in any civilized gathering.
Starling looked at Crawford steadily, but she was too still. "Hannibal the
Cannibal," she said.
"Yes."
"Yes, well--- Okay, right. I'm glad of the chance, but you have to know I'm
wondering--- why me?"
"Mainly because you're available," Crawford said. "I don't expect him to
cooperate. He's already refused, but it was through an intermediary--- the director of the
hospital. I have to be able to say our qualified examiner went to him and asked him
personally. There are reasons that don't concern you. I don't have anybody left in this
section to do it."
' "You're jammed--- Buffalo Bill--- and the things in Nevada," Starling said.
"You got it. It's the old story--- not enough warm bodies."
"You said tomorrow--- you're in a hurry. Any bearing on a current case?"
"No. I wish there were."
"If he balks on me, do you still want a psychological evaluation?"
"No. I'm waist-deep in inaccessible-patient evaluations of Dr. Lecter and they're
all different."
Crawford shook two vitamin C tablets into his palm, and mixed an Alka-Seltzer at
the water cooler to wash them down. "It's ridiculous, you know; Lecter's a psychiatrist
and he writes for the psychiatric journals himself--- extraordinary stuff--- but it's never
about his own little anomalies. He pretended to go along with the hospital director,
Chilton, once in some tests--- sitting around with a blood-pressure cuff on his penis,
looking at wreck pictures--- then Lecter published first what he'd learned about Chilton
and made a fool out of him. He responds to serious correspondence from psychiatric
students in fields unrelated to his case, and that's all he does. If he won't talk to you, I just
want straight reporting. How does he look, how does his cell look, what's he doing. Local
color, so to speak. Watch out for the press going in and coming out. Not the real press,
the supermarket press. They love Lecter even better than Prince Andrew."
"Didn't a sleazo magazine offer him fifty thousand dollars for some recipes? I
seem to remember that," Starling said.
Crawford nodded. "I'm pretty sure the National Tattler has bought somebody
inside the hospital and they may know you're coming after I make the appointment."
Crawford leaned forward until he faced her at a distance of two feet. She watched
his half-glasses blur the bags under his eyes. He had gargled recently with Listerine.
"Now. I want your full attention, Starling. Are you listening to me?"
"Yes sir."
"Be very careful with Hannibal Lecter. Dr. Chilton, the head of the mental
hospital, will go over the physical procedure you use to deal with him. Don't deviate from
it. Do not deviate from it one iota for any reason. If Lecter talks to you at all, he'll just be
trying to find out about you. It's the kind of curiosity that makes a snake look in a bird's
nest. We both know you have to back-and-forth a little in interviews, but you tell him no
specifics about yourself. You don't want any of your personal facts in his head. You
know what he did to Will Graham."
"I read about it when it happened."
"He gutted Will with a linoleum knife when Will caught up with him. It's a
wonder Will didn't die. Remember the Red Dragon? Lecter turned Francis Dolarhyde
onto Will and his family. Will's face looks like damn Picasso drew him, thanks to Lecter.
He tore a nurse up in the asylum. Do your job, just don't ever forget what he is."
"And what's that? Do you know?"
"I know he's a monster. Beyond that, nobody can say for sure. Maybe you'll find
out; I didn't pick you out of a hat, Starling. You asked me a couple of interesting
questions when I was at UVA. The Director will see your own report over your signature-
-- if it's clear and tight and organized. I decide that. And I will have it by 0900 Sunday.
Okay, Starling, carry on in the prescribed manner."
Crawford smiled at her, but his eyes were dead.
CHAPTER 2
Dr. Frederick Chilton, fifty-eight, administrator of the Baltimore State Hospital
for the Criminally Insane, has a long, wide desk upon which there are no hard or sharp
objects. Some of the staff call it "the moat." Other staff members don't know what the
word moat means. Dr. Chilton remained seated behind his desk when Clarice Starling
came into his office.
"We've had a lot of detectives here, but I can't remember one so attractive,"
Chilton 'said without getting up.
Starling knew without thinking about it that the shine on his extended hand was
lanolin from patting his hair. She let go before he did.
"It is Miss Sterling, isn't it?"
"It's Starling, Doctor, with an a. Thank you for your time."
"So the FBI is going to the girls like everything else, ha, ha." He added the
tobacco smile he uses to separate his sentences.
"The Bureau's improving, Dr. Chilton. It certainly is."
"Will you be in Baltimore for several days? You know, you can have just as good
a time here as you can in Washington or New York, if you know the town."
She looked away to spare herself his smile and knew at once that he had
registered her distaste. "I'm sure it's a great town, but my instructions are to see Dr.
Lecter and report back this afternoon."
"Is there someplace I could call you in Washington for a follow-up, later on?"
"Of course. It's kind of you to think of it. Special Agent Jack Crawford's in charge
of this project, and you can always reach me through him."
"I see," Chilton said. His cheeks, mottled with pink, clashed with the improbable
red-brown of his coif. ''Give me your identification, please." He let her remain standing
through his leisurely examination of her ID card. Then he handed it back and rose. "This
won't take much time. Come along."
"I understood you'd brief me, Dr. Chilton," Starling said.
"I can do that while we walk." He came around his desk, looking at his watch. "I
have a lunch in half an hour."
Dammit, she should have read him better, quicker. He might not be a total jerk.
He might know something useful. It wouldn't have hurt her to simper once, even if she
wasn't at it.
"Dr. Chilton, I have an appointment with you now. It was set at your convenience,
when you could give me some time. Things could come up during the interview--- I may
need to go over some of his responses with you."
"I really, really doubt it. Oh, I need to make a telephone call before we go. I'll
catch up with you in the outer office."
"I'd like to leave my coat and umbrella here."
"Out there," Chilton said. "Give them to Alan in the outer office. He'll put them
away."
Alan wore the pajamalike garment issued to the inmates. He was wiping out
ashtrays with the tail of his shirt.
He rolled his tongue around in his cheek as he took Starling's coat.
"Thank you," she said.
"You're more than welcome. How often do you shit?" Alan asked.
"What did you say?"
"Does it come out lo-o-o-o-nnng?"
"I'll hang these somewhere myself."
"You don't have anything in the way--- you can bend over and watch it come out
and see if it changes color when the air hits it, do you do that? Does it look like you have
a big brown tail?" He wouldn't let go of the coat.
"Dr. Chilton wants you in his office, right now," Starling said.
"No I don't," Dr. Chilton said. "Put the coat in the closet, Alan, and don't get it out
while we're gone. Do it. I had a full-time office girl, but the cutbacks robbed me of her.
Now the girl who let you in types three hours a day, and then I have Alan. Where are all
the office girls, Miss Starling?" His spectacles flashed at her. "Are you armed?"
"No, I'm not armed."
"May I see your purse and briefcase?"
"You saw my credentials."
"And they say you're a student. Let me see your things, please."
----------
Clarice Starling flinched as the first of the heavy steel gates clashed shut behind
her and the bolt shot home. Chilton walked slightly ahead, down the green institutional
corridor in an atmosphere of Lysol and distant slammings. Starling was angry at herself
for letting Chilton put his hand in her purse and briefcase, and she stepped hard on the
anger so that she could concentrate. It was all right. She felt her control solid beneath her,
like a good gravel bottom in a fast current.
"Lecter's a considerable nuisance," Chilton said over his shoulder. "It takes an
orderly at least ten minutes a day to remove the staples from the publications he receives.
We tried to eliminate or reduce his subscriptions, but he wrote a brief and the court
overruled us. The volume of his personal mail used to be enormous. Thankfully, it's
dwindled since he's been overshadowed by other creatures in the news. For a while it
seemed that every little student doing a master's thesis in psychology wanted something
from Lecter in it. The medical journals still publish him, but it's just for the freak value of
his byline."
"He did a good piece on surgical addiction in the Journal of Clinical Psychiatry, I
thought," Starling said.
"You did, did you? We tried to study Lecter. We thought, 'Here's an opportunity
to make a landmark study'--- it's so rare to get one alive."
"One what?"
"A pure sociopath, that's obviously what he is. But he's impenetrable, much too
sophisticated for the standard tests. And, my, does he hate us. He thinks I'm his nemesis.
Crawford's very clever--- isn't he?--- using you on Lecter.
"How do you mean, Dr. Chilton?"
''A young woman to 'turn him on,' I believe you call it. I don't believe Lecter's
seen a woman in several years--- he may have gotten a glimpse of one of the cleaning
people. We generally keep women out of there. They're trouble in detention."
Well fuck off, Chilton. "I graduated from the University of Virginia with honors,
Doctor. It's not a charm school."
"Then you should be able to remember the rules: Do not reach through the bars,
do not touch the bars. You pass him nothing but soft paper. No pens, no pencils. He has
his own felt-tipped pens some of the time. The paper you pass him must be free of
staples, paper clips, or pins. Items are only passed to him through the sliding food carrier.
Items come back out through the sliding food carrier. No exceptions. Do not accept
anything he attempts to hold out to you through the barrier. Do you understand me?"
"I understand."
They had passed through two more gates and left the natural light behind. Now
they were beyond the wards where inmates can mix together, down in the region where
there can be no windows and no mixing. The hallway lights are covered with heavy grids,
like the lights in the engine rooms of ships. Dr. Chilton paused beneath one. When their
footfalls stopped, Starling could hear somewhere beyond the wall the ragged end of a
voice ruined by shouting.
"Lecter is never outside his cell without wearing full restraints and a mouthpiece,"
Chilton said. "I'm going to show you why. He was a model of cooperation for the first
year after he was committed. Security around him was slightly relaxed--- this was under
the previous administration, you understand. On the afternoon of July 8, 1976, he
complained of chest pain and he was taken to the dispensary. His restraints were removed
to make it easier to give him an electrocardiogram. When the nurse bent over him, he did
this to her." Chilton handed Clarice Starling a dog-eared photograph. "The doctors
managed to save one of her eyes. Lecter was hooked up to the monitors the entire time.
He broke her jaw to get at her tongue. His pulse never got over eighty-five, even when he
swallowed it."
Starling didn't know which was worse, the photograph or Chilton's attention as he
gleaned her face with fast grabby eyes. She thought of a thirsty chicken pecking tears off
her face.
"I keep him in here," Chilton said, and pushed a button beside heavy double doors
of security glass. A big orderly let them into the block beyond.
Starling made a tough decision and stopped just inside the doors. "Dr. Chilton, we
really need these test results. If Dr. Lecter feels you're his enemy--- if he's fixed on you,
just as you've said--- we might have more luck if I approached him by myself. What do
you think?"
Chilton's cheek twitched. "That's perfectly fine with me. You might have
suggested that in my office. I could have sent an orderly with you and saved the time."
"I could have suggested it there if you'd briefed me there."
"I don't expect I'll see you again, Miss Starling--- Barney, when she's finished
with Lecter, ring for someone to bring her out."
Chilton left without looking at her again.
Now there was only the big impassive orderly and the soundless clock behind him
and his wire mesh cabinet with the Mace and restraints, mouthpiece and tranquilizer gun.
A wall rack held a long pipe device with a U on the end for pinioning the violent to the
wall.
The orderly was looking at her. "Dr. Chilton told you, don't touch the bars?" His
voice was both high and hoarse. She was reminded of Aldo Ray.
"Yes, he told me."
"Okay. It's past the others, the last cell on the right. Stay toward the middle of the
corridor as you go down, and don't mind anything. You can take him his mail, get off on
the right foot." The orderly seemed privately amused. "You just put it in the tray and let it
roll through. If the tray's inside, you can pull it back with the cord, or he can send it back.
He can't reach you where the tray stops outside." The orderly gave her two magazines,
their loose pages spilling out, three newspapers and several opened letters.
The corridor was about thirty yards long, with cells on both sides. Some were
padded cells with an observation window, long and narrow like an archery slit; in the
center of the door. Others were standard prison cells, with a wall of bars opening on the
corridor. Clarice Starling was aware of figures in the cells, but she tried not to look at
them. She was more than halfway down when a voice hissed, "I can smell your cunt."
She gave no sign that she had heard it, and went on.
The lights were on in the last cell. She moved toward the left side of the corridor
to see into it as she approached, knowing her heels announced her.
Chapter 3
Dr. Lecter's cell is well beyond the others, facing only a closet across the corridor,
and it is unique in ether ways. The front is a wall of bars, but within the bars, at a distance
greater than the human reach, is a second barrier, a stout nylon net stretched from floor to
ceiling and wall to wall. Behind the net, Starling could see a table bolted to the floor and
piled high with softcover books and papers, and a straight chair, also fastened down.
Dr. Hannibal Lecter himself reclined on his bunk, perusing the Italian edition of
Vogue. He held the loose pages in his right hand and put them beside him one by one
with his left. Dr. Lecter has six fingers on his left hand.
Clarice Starling stopped a little distance from the bars, about the length of a small
foyer.
"Dr. Lecter." Her voice sounded all right to her.
He looked up from his reading.
For a steep second she thought his gaze hummed, but it was only her blood she
heard.
"My name is Clarice Starling. May I talk with you?" Courtesy was implicit in her
distance and her tone.
Dr. Lecter considered, his finger pressed against his pursed lips. Then he rose in
his own time and came forward smoothly in his cage, stopping short of the nylon web
without looking at it, as though he chose the distance.
She could see that he was small, sleek; in his hands and arms she saw wiry
strength like her own.
"Good morning," he said, as though he had answered the door. His cultured voice
has a slight metallic rasp beneath it, possibly from disuse.
Dr. Lecter's eyes are maroon and they reflect the light in pinpoints of red.
Sometimes the points of light seem to fly like sparks to his center. His eyes held Starling
whole.
She came a measured distance closer to the bars. The hair on her forearms rose
and pressed against her sleeves.
"Doctor, we have a hard problem in psychological profiling. I want to ask you for
your help."
" 'We' being Behavioral Science at Quantico. You're one of Jack Crawford's, I
expect."
"I am, yes."
"May I see your credentials?"
She hadn't expected this. "I showed them at the... office."
"You mean you showed them to Frederick Chilton, Ph.D.?"
"Yes."
"Did you see his credentials?"
"No."
"The academic ones don't make extensive reading, I can tell you. Did you meet
Alan? Isn't he charming? Which of them had you rather talk with?"
"On the whole, I'd say Alan."
"You could be a reporter Chilton let in for money. I think I'm entitled to see your
credentials."
"All right." She held up her laminated ID card.
"I can't read it at this distance, send it through, please."
"I can't."
"Because it's hard."
"Yes."
"Ask Barney."
The orderly came and considered. "Dr. Lecter, I'll let this come through. But if
you don't return it when I ask you to--- if we have to bother everybody and secure you to
get it--- then I'll be upset. If you upset me, you'll have to stay bundled up until I feel
better toward you. Meals through the tube, dignity pants changed twice a day--- the
works. And I'll hold your mail for a week. Got it?"
"Certainly, Barney."
The card rolled through on the tray and Dr. Lecter held it to the light.
"A trainee? It says 'trainee.' Jack Crawford sent a trainee to interview me?" He
tapped the card against his small white teeth and breathed in its smell.
"Dr. Lecter," Barney said.
"Of course." He put the card back in the tray carrier and Barney pulled it to the
outside.
"I'm still in training at the Academy, yes," Starling said, "but we're not discussing
the FBI--- we're talking psychology. Can you decide for yourself if I'm qualified in what
we talk about?"
"Ummmm," Dr. Lecter said. "Actually... that's rather slippery of you. Barney, do
you think Officer Starling might have a chair?"
"Dr. Chilton didn't tell me anything about a chair."
"What do your manners tell you, Barney?"
"Would you like a chair?" Barney asked her. "We could have had one, but he
never--- well, usually nobody needs to stay that long."
"Yes, thank you," Starling said.
Barney brought a folding chair from the locked closet across the hall, set it up,
and left them.
"Now," Lecter said, sitting sideways at his table to face her, "what did Miggs say
to you?"
"Who?"
"Multiple Miggs, in the cell down there. He hissed at you. What did he say?"
"He said, 'I can smell your cunt."'
"I see. I myself cannot. You use Evyan skin cream, and sometimes you wear L'Air
du Temps, but not today. Today you are determinedly unperfumed. How do you feel
about what Miggs said?"
"He's hostile for reasons I couldn't know. It's too bad. He's hostile to people,
people are hostile to him. It's a loop."
"Are you hostile to him?"
"I'm sorry he's disturbed. Beyond that, he's noise. How did you know about the
perfume?"
"A puff from your bag when you got out your card. Your bag is lovely."
"Thank you."
"You brought your best bag, didn't you?"
"Yes." It was true. She had saved for the classic casual handbag, and it was the
best item she owned.
"It's much better than your shoes."
"Maybe they'll catch up."
"I have no doubt of it."
"Did you do the drawings on your walls, Doctor?"
"Do you think I called in a decorator?"
"The one over the sink is a European city?"
"It's Florence. That's the Palazzo Vecchio and the Duomo, seen from the
Belvedere."
"Did you do it from memory, all the detail?"
"Memory, Officer Starling, is what I have instead of a view."
"The other one is a crucifixion? The middle cross is empty.'
"It's Golgotha after the Deposition. Crayon and Magic Marker on butcher paper.
It's what the thief who had been promised Paradise really got, when they took the paschal
lamb away."
"And what was that?"
"His legs broken of course, just like his companion who mocked Christ. Are you
entirely innocent of the Gospel of St. John? Look at Duccio, then--- he paints accurate
crucifixions. How is Will Graham? How does he look?"
"I don't know Will Graham."
"You know who he is. Jack Crawford's protégé. The one before you. How does
his face look?"
"I've never seen him."
"This is called 'cutting up a few old touches,' Officer Starling, you don't mind do
you?"
Beats of silence and she plunged.
"Better than that, we could touch up a few old cuts here. I brought---"
"No. No, that's stupid and wrong. Never use wit in a segue. Listen, understanding
a witticism and replying to it makes your subject perform a fast, detached scan that is
inimical to mood. It is on the plank of mood that we proceed. You were doing fine, you'd
been courteous and receptive to courtesy, you'd established trust by telling the
embarrassing truth about Miggs, and then you come in with a ham-handed segue into
your questionnaire, It won't do."
"Dr. Lecter, you're an experienced clinical psychiatrist. Do you think I'm dumb
enough to try to run some kind of mood scam on you? Give me some credit. I'm asking
you to respond to the questionnaire, and you will or you won't. Would it hurt to look at
the thing?"
"Officer Starling, have you read any of the papers coming out of Behavioral
Science recently?"
"Yes."
"So have I. The FBI stupidly refuses to send me the Law Enforcement Bulletin,
but I get it from secondhand dealers and I have the News from John Jay, and the
psychiatric journals. They're dividing the people who practice serial murder into two
groups--- organized and disorganized. What do you think of that?"
"It's... fundamental, they evidently---"
"Simplistic is the word you want. In fact, most psychology is puerile, Officer
Starling, and that practiced in Behavioral Science is on a level with phrenology.
Psychology doesn't get very good material to start with. Go to any college psychology
department and look at the students and faculty: ham radio enthusiasts and other
personality-deficient buffs. Hardly the best brains on the campus: Organized and
disorganized--- a real bottom-feeder thought of that."
"How would you change the classification?"
"I wouldn't."
"Speaking of publications, I read your pieces on surgical addiction and left-side,
right-side facial displays."
"Yes, they were first-rate," Dr. Lecter said.
"I thought so, and so did Jack Crawford. He pointed them out to me. That's one
reason he's anxious for you---"
"Crawford the Stoic is anxious? He must be busy if he's recruiting help from the
student body."
"He is, and he wants---"
"Busy with Buffalo Bill."
"I expect so."
"No. Not 'I expect so.' Officer Starling, you know perfectly well it's Buffalo Bill. I
thought Jack Crawford might have sent you to ask me about that."
"No."
"Then you're not working around to it."
"No, I came because we need your---"
"What do you know about Buffalo Bill?"
"Nobody knows much."
"Has everything been in the papers?"
"I think so. Dr. Lecter, I haven't seen any confidential material on that case, my
job is---"
"How many women has Buffalo Bill used?"
"The police have found five."
"All flayed?"
"Partially, yes."
"The papers have never explained his name. Do you know why he's called
Buffalo Bill?"
"Yes."
"Tell me."
"I'll tell you if you'll look at this questionnaire."
"I'll look, that's all. Now, why?"
"It started as a bad joke in Kansas City homicide."
"Yes...?"
"They call him Buffalo Bill because he skins his humps."
Starling discovered that she had traded feeling frightened for feeling cheap. Of the
two, she preferred feeling frightened.
"Send through the questionnaire."
Starling rolled the blue section through on the tray. She sat still while Lecter
flipped through it.
He dropped it back in the carrier. "Oh, Officer Starling, do you think you can
dissect me with this blunt little tool?"
"No, I think you can provide some insight and advance this study."
"And what possible reason could I have to do that?"
"Curiosity."
"About what?"
"About why you're here. About what happened to you."
"Nothing happened to me, Officer Starling. I happened. You can't reduce me to a
set of influences. You've given up good and evil for behaviorism, Officer Starling.
You've got everybody in moral dignity pants--- nothing is ever anybody's fault. Look at
me, Officer Starling. Can you stand to say I'm evil? Am I evil, Officer Starling?"
"I think you've been destructive. For me it's the same thing."
"Evil's just destructive? Then storms are evil, if it's that simple. And we have fire,
and then there's hail. Underwriters lump it all under 'Acts of God.' "
"Deliberate---"
"I collect church collapses, recreationally. Did you see the recent one in Sicily?
Marvelous! The facade fell on sixty-five grandmothers at a special Mass. Was that evil?
If so, who did it? If He's up there, He just loves it, Officer Starling. Typhoid and swans---
it all comes from the same place."
"I can't explain you, Doctor, but I know who can."
He stopped her with his upraised hand. The hand was shapely, she noted, and the
middle finger perfectly replicated. It is the rarest form of polydactyly.
When he spoke again, his tone was soft and pleasant. "You'd like to quantify me,
Officer Starling. You're so ambitious, aren't you? Do you know what you look like to me,
with your good bag and your cheap shoes? You look like a rube. You're a well-scrubbed,
hustling rube with a little taste. Your eyes are like cheap birthstones--- all surface shine
when you stalk some little answer. And you're bright behind them, aren't you? Desperate
not to be like your mother. Good nutrition has given you some length of bone, but you're
not more than one generation out of the mines, Officer Starling. Is it the West Virginia
Starlings or the Okie Starlings, Officer? It was a toss-up between college and the opportunities in the Women's Army Corps, wasn't it? Let me tell you something specific
about yourself, Student Starling. Back in your room, you have a string of gold add-abeads and you feel an ugly little thump when you look at how tacky they are now, isn't
that so? All those tedious thank-yous, permitting all that sincere fumbling, getting all
sticky once for every bead. Tedious. Tedious. Bo-o-o-o-r-i-ing. Being smart spoils a lot
of things, doesn't it? And, taste isn't kind. When you think about this conversation, you'll
remember the dumb animal hurt in his face when you got rid of him.
"If the add-a-beads got tacky, what else will as you go along? You wonder don't
you, at night?" Dr. Lecter asked in the kindest of tones.
Starling raised her head to face him. "You see a lot, Dr. Lecter. I won't deny
anything you've said. But here's the question you're answering for me right now, whether
you mean to or not: Are you strong enough to point that high-powered perception at
yourself? It's hard to face. I've found that out in the last few minutes. How about it? Look
at yourself and write down the truth. What more fit or complex subject could you find?
Or maybe you're afraid of yourself."
"You're tough, aren't you, Officer Starling?"
"Reasonably so, yes."
"And you'd hate to think you were common. Would'nt that sting? My! Well you're
far from common, Officer Starling. All you have is fear of it. What are your add-a-beads,
seven millimeter?"
"Seven."
"Let me make a suggestion. Get some loose, drilled tiger's eyes and string them
alternately with the gold beads. You might want to do two-and-three or one-and-two,
however looks best to you. The tiger's eyes will pick up the color of your own eyes and
the highlights in your hair. Has anyone ever sent you a Valentine?"
"Yep."
"We're already into Lent. Valentine's Day is only a week away, hmmmm, are you
expecting some?"
"You never know."
"No, you never do... I've been thinking about Valentine's Day. It reminds me of
something funny. Now that I think of it, I could make you very happy on Valentine's
Day, Clarice Starling."
"How, Doctor Lecter?"
"By sending you a wonderful Valentine. I'll have to think about it. Now please
excuse me. Good-bye, Officer Starling."
"And the study?"
"A census taker tried to quantify me once. I ate his liver with some fava beans and
a big Amarone. Go back to school, little Starling."
Hannibal Lecter, polite to the last, did not give her his back. He stepped backward
from the barrier before he turned to his cot again, and lying on it, became as remote from
her as a stone crusader lying on a tomb.
Starling felt suddenly empty, as though she had given blood. She took longer than
necessary to put the papers back in her briefcase because she didn't immediately trust her
legs. Starling was soaked with the failure she detested. She folded her chair and leaned it
against the utility closet door. She would have to pass Miggs again. Barney in the
distance appeared to be reading. She could call him to come for her. Damn Miggs. It was
no worse than passing construction crews or delivery louts every day in the city. She
started back down the corridor.
Close beside her, Miggs' voice hissed, "I bit my wrist so I can diiiieeeeeeeee---
see how it bleeds?"
She should have called Barney but, startled, she looked into the cell, saw Miggs
flick his fingers and felt the warm spatter on her cheek and shoulder before she could turn
away.
She got away from him, registered that it was semen, not blood, and Lecter was
calling to her, she could hear him. Dr. Lecter's voice behind her, the cutting rasp in it
more pronounced.
"Officer Starling."
He was up and calling after her as she walked. She rummaged in her purse for
tissues.
Behind her, "Officer Starling."
She was on the cold rails of her control now, making steady progress toward the
gate.
"Officer Starling." A new note in Lecter's voice.
She stopped. What in God's name do I want this bad? Miggs hissed something
she didn't listen to.
She stood again in front of Letter's cell and saw the rare spectacle of the doctor
agitated. She knew that he could smell it on her. He could smell everything.
"I would not have had that happen to you. Discourtesy is unspeakably ugly to
me."
It was as though committing murders had purged him of lesser rudeness. Or
perhaps, Starling thought, it excited him to see her marked in this particular way. She
couldn't tell. The sparks in his eyes flew into his darkness like fireflies down a cave.
Whatever it is, use it, Jesus! She held up her briefcase. "Please do this for me."
Maybe she was too late; he was calm again.
"No. But I'll make you happy that you came. I'll give you something else. I'll give
you what you love the most, Clarice Starling."
"What's that, Dr. Lecter?"
"Advancement, of course. It works out perfectly--- I'm so glad. Valentine's Day
made me a think of it." The smile over white teeth could have come for any reason. He
spoke so softly she could barely hear. "Look in Raspail's car for your Valentines. Did you
hear me? Look in Raspail's car for your Valentines. You'd better go now; I don't think
Miggs could manage again so soon, even if he is crazy, do you?"
CHAPTER 4
Clarice Starling was excited, depleted, running on her will. Some of the things
Lecter had said about her were true, and some only clanged on the truth. For a few
seconds she had felt an alien consciousness loose in her head, slapping things off the
shelves like a bear in a camper.
She hated what he'd said about her mother and she had to get rid of the anger.
This was business.
She sat in her old Pinto across the street from the hospital and breathed deeply.
When the windows fogged she had a little privacy from the sidewalk.
Raspail. She remembered the name. He was a patient of Lecter's and one of his
victims. She'd had only one evening with the Lecter background material. The file was
vast and Raspail one of many victims. She needed to read the details.
Starling wanted to run with it, but she knew that the urgency was of her own
manufacture. The Raspail case was closed years ago. No one was in danger. She had
time. Better to be well informed and well advised before she went further.
Crawford might take it away from her and give it to someone else. She'd have to
take that chance.
She tried to call him from a phone booth, but found he was budget-begging for the
Justice Department before the House Subcommittee on Appropriations.
She could have gotten details of the case from the Baltimore Police Department's
homicide division, but murder is not a federal crime and she knew they'd snatch it away
from her immediately, no question.
She drove back to Quantico, back to Behavioral Science with its homey brownchecked curtains and its gray files full of hell. She sat there into the evening, after the last
secretary had left, cranking through the Lecter microfilm. The contrary old viewer
glowed like a Jack-o'-lantern in the darkened room, the words and the negatives of
pictures swarming across her intent face.
Raspail, Benjamin René, WM, 46, was first flutist for the Baltimore Philharmonic
Orchestra. He was a patient in Dr. Hannibal Lecter's psychiatric practice.
On, March 22, 1975, he failed to appear for a performance in Baltimore. On
March 25 his body was discovered seated in a pew in a small rural church near Falls
Church, Virginia, dressed only in a white tie and a tail coat. Autopsy revealed that
Raspail's heart was pierced and that he was short his thymus and pancreas.
Clarice Starling, who from early life had known much more than she wished to
know about meat processing, recognized the missing organs as the sweet-breads.
Baltimore Homicide believed that these items appeared on the menu of a dinner
Lecter gave for the president and the conductor of the Baltimore Philharmonic on the
evening following Raspail's disappearance.
Dr. Hannibal Lecter professed to know nothing about these matters. The president
and the conductor of the Philharmonic testified that they could not recall the fare at Dr.
Lecter's dinner, though Lecter was known for the excellence of his table and had contrib-
uted numerous articles to gourmet magazines.
The president of the Philharmonic subsequently was treated for anorexia and
problems related to alcohol dependency at a holistic nerve sanitarium in Basel.
Raspail was Lecter's ninth known victim, according to the Baltimore police.
Raspail died intestate, and the lawsuits among his relatives over the estate were
followed by the newspapers for a number of months before public interest flagged.
Raspail's relatives had also joined with the families of other victims in Lecter s
practice in a successful lawsuit to have the errant psychiatrist's case files and tapes
destroyed. There was no telling what embarrassing secrets he might blab, their reasoning
went, and the files were documentation.
The court had appointed Raspail's lawyer, Everett Yow, to be executor of his
estate.
Starling would have to apply to the lawyer to get at the car. The lawyer might be
protective of Raspail's memory and, with enough advance notice, might destroy evidence
to cover for his late client.
Starling preferred to pounce, and she needed advice and authorization. She was
alone in Behavioral Science and had the run of the place. She found Crawford's home
number in the Rolodex.
She never heard the telephone ringing, but suddenly his voice was there, very
quiet and even.
"Jack Crawford."
"This is Clarice Starling. I hope you weren't eating dinner...." She had to continue
into silence. "...Lecter told me something about the Raspail case today, I'm in the office
following it up. He tells me there's something in Raspail's car. I'd have to get at it through
his lawyer, and since tomorrow's Saturday--- no school--- I wanted to ask you if---"
"Starling, do you have any recollection of what I told you to do with the Lecter
information?" Crawford's voice was so terribly quiet.
"Give you a report by 0900 Sunday."
"Do that, Starling. Do just exactly that."
"Yes sir."
The dial tone stung in her ear. The sting spread over face and made her eyes burn.
"Well God fucking shit," she said. "You old creep. Creepo son of a bitch. Let
Miggs squirt you and see how you like it."
----------
Starling, scrubbed shiny and wearing her FBI Academy nightgown, was working
on the second draft of her report when her dormitory roommate, Ardelia Mapp, came in
from the library. Mapp's broad, brown, eminently sane countenance was one of the more
welcome sights of her day.
Ardelia Mapp saw the fatigue in her face.
"What did you do today, girl?" Mapp always asked question as if the answers
could make no possible difference.
"Wheedled a crazy man with come all over me."
"I wish I had time for a social life--- I don't know how you manage it, and school
too."
Starling found that she was laughing. Ardelia Mapp laughed with her, as much as
the small joke was worth. Starling did not stop, and she heard herself from far away,
laughing and laughing. Through Starling's tears, Mapp looked strangely old and her smile
had sadness in it.
CHAPTER 5
Jark Crawford, fifty-three, reads in a wing chair by a low lamp in the bedroom of
his home. He faces two double beds, both raised on blocks to hospital height. One is his
own; in the other lies his wife, Bella. Crawford can hear her breathing through her mouth.
It has been two days since she last could stir or speak to him.
She misses a breath. Crawford looks up from his book, over his half-glasses. He
puts the book down. Bella breathes again, a flutter and then a full breath. He rises to put
his hand on her, to take her blood pressure and her pulse. Over the months he has become
expert with the blood pressure cuff.
Because he will not leave her at night, he has installed a bed for himself beside
her. Because he reaches out to her in the dark, his bed is high, like hers.
Except for the height of the beds and the minimal plumbing necessary for Bella's
comfort, Crawford has managed to keep this from looking like a sickroom. There are
flowers, but not too many. No pills are in sight--- Crawford emptied a linen closet in the
hall and filled it with her medicines and apparatus before he brought her from the
hospital. (It was the second time he had carried her across the threshold of that house and
the thought nearly unmanned him.)
A warm front has come up from the south. The windows are open and the
Virginia air is soft and fresh. Small frogs peep to one another in the dark.
The room is spotless, but the carpet has begun to begun to nap--- Crawford will
not run the noisy vacuum cleaner in the room and uses a manual carpet sweeper that is
not as good. He pads to the closet and turns on the light. Two clipboards hang on the
inside of the door. On one he notes Bella's pulse and blood pressure. His figures and
those of the day nurse alternate in a column that stretches over many yellow pages, many
days and nights. On the other clipboard, the day-shift nurse has signed off Bella's
medication.
Crawford is capable of giving any medication she may need in the night.
Following a nurse's directions, he practiced injections on a lemon and then on his thighs
before he brought her home.
Crawford stands over her for perhaps three minutes, looking down into her face.
A lovely scarf of silk moiré covers her hair like a turban. She insisted on it, for as long as
she could insist. Now he insists on it. He moistens her lips with glycerine and removes a
speck from the corner of her eye with his broad thumb. She does not stir. It is not yet time
to turn her.
At the mirror, Crawford assures himself that he is not sick, that he doesn't have to
go into the ground with her, that he himself is well. He catches himself doing this and it
shames him.
Back at his chair he cannot remember what he was reading. He feels the books
beside him to find the one that is warm.
CHAPTER 6
On Monday morning, Clarice Starling found this message from Crawford in her
mailbox:
CS:
Proceed on the Raspail car. On
your own time. My office will provide
you a credit card number for long
distance calls. Ck with me before you
contact estate or go anywhere. Report
Wednesday 1600 hours.
The Director got your Lecter
report over your signature. You did well.
 JC
 SAIC/
Section 8
Starling felt pretty good. She knew Crawford was just giving her an exhausted
mouse to bat around for practice. But he wanted to teach her. He wanted her to do well.
For Starling, that beat courtesy every time.
Raspail had been dead far eight years. What evience could have lasted in a car
that long?
She knew from family experience that, because automobiles depreciate so rapidly,
an appellate court will let survivors sell a car before probate, the money going into
escrow. It seemed unlikely that even an estate as tangled and disputed as Raspail's would
hold a car this long.
There was also the problem of time. Counting her lunch break, Starling had an
hour and fifteen minutes a day free to use the telephone during business hours. She'd
have to report to Crawford on Wednesday afternoon. So she had a total of three hours and
forty-five minutes to trace the car, spread over three days, if she used her study periods
and made up the study at night.
She had good notes from her Investigative Procedures Classes, and she'd have a
chance to ask general questions of her instructors.
During her Monday lunch, personnel at the Baltimore County Courthouse put
Starling on hold and forgot her three times. During her study period she reached a
friendly clerk at the courthouse, who pulled the probate records on the Raspail estate.
The clerk confirmed that permission had been granted for sale of an auto and gave
Starling the make and serial number of the car, and the name of a subsequent off the title
transfer.
On Tuesday, she wasted half her lunch hour trying to chase down that name. It
cost her the rest of her lunch period to find out that the Maryland Department of Motor
Vehicles is not equipped to trace a vehicle by serial number, only by registration number
or current tag number.
On Tuesday afternoon, a downpour drove the trainees in from the firing range. In
a conference room steamy with damp clothing and sweat, John Brigham, the ex-Marine
firearms instructor, chose to test Starling's hand strength in front of the class by seeing
how many times she could pull the trigger on a Model 19 Smith & Wesson in sixty
seconds.
She managed seventy-four with her left hand, puffed a strand of hair out of her
eyes, and started over with her right while another student counted. She was in the
Weaver stance, well braced, the front sight in sharp focus, the rear sight and her
makeshift target properly blurred. Midway through her minute, she let her mind wander
to get it off the pain. The target on the wall came into focus. It was a certificate of
appreciation from the Interstate Commerce enforcement division made out to her
instructor, John Brigham.
She questioned Brigham out of the side of her mouth while the other student
counted the clicks of the revolver.
"How do you trace the current registration..."
"...sixtyfivesixtysixsixtysevensixtyeightsixty..."
"...of a car when you've only got the serial number..."
"seventyeightseventynineeightyeightyone..."
"...and the make? You don't have a current tag number."
"...eightynine ninety. Time."
"All right, you people," the instructor said, "I want you to take note of that. Hand
strength's a major factor in steady combat shooting. Some of you gentlemen are worried
I'll call on you next. Your worries would be justified-Starling is well above average with
both hands. That's because she works at it. She works at it with the little squeezy things
you all have access to. Most of you are not used to squeezing anything harder than your"
---ever vigilant against his native Marine terminology, he groped for a polite simile---
"zits," he said at last. "Get serious, Starling, you're not good enough either. I want to see
that left hand over ninety before you graduate. Pair up and time each other--- chop-chop.
"Not you, Starling, come here. What else have you got on the car?"
"Just the serial number and make, that's it. One prior owner five years ago."
"All right, listen. Where most people f--- fall into error is trying to leapfrog
through the registrations from one owner to the next. You get fouled up between states. I
mean, cops even do that sometimes. And registrations and tag numbers are all the
computer's got. We're all accustomed to using tag numbers or registration numbers, not
vehicle serial numbers."
The clicking of the blue-handled practice revolvers was loud all over the room
and he had to rumble in her ear.
"There's one way it's easy. R. L. Polk and Company, that publishes city
directories--- they also put out a list current car registrations by make and consecutive
serial number. It's the only place. Car dealers steer then advertising with them. How'd you
know to ask me?"
"You were ICC enforcement, I figured you'd traced a lot of vehicles. Thanks."
"Pay me back--- get that left hand up where it ought to be and let's shame some of
these lilyfingers."
Back in her phone booth during study period, her hands trembled so that her notes
were barely legible. Raspail's car was a Ford. There was a Ford dealer near the
University of Virginia who for years had patiently done what he could with her Pinto.
Now, just as patiendy, the dealer poked through his Polk listings for her. He came back to
the telephone with the name and address of the person who had last registered Benjamin
Raspail's car.
Clarice is on a roll, Clarice has got control. Quit being silly and call the man up
at his home in, lemme see, Number Nine Ditch, Arkansas. Jack Crawford will never let
me go down there, but at least I can confirm who's got the ride.
No answer, and again no answer. The ring sounded funny and far away, a double
rump-rump like a party line. She tried at night and got no answer.
At Wednesday lunch period, a man answered Starling's call:
"WPOQ Plays the Oldies."
"Hello, I'm calling to---"
"I wouldn't care for any aluminum siding and I don't want to live in no trailer
court in Florida, what else you got?"
Starling heard a lot of the Arkansas hills in the man's voice. She could speak that
with anybody when she wanted to, and her time was short.
"Yessir, if you could help me out I'd be much obliged. I'm trying to get ahold of
Mr. Lomax Bardwell? This is Clarice Starling?"
"It's Starling somebody," the man yelled to the rest of his household. "What do
you want with Bardwell?"
"This is the Mid-South regional office of the Ford recall division? He's entitled to
some warranty work on his LTD free of charge?"
"I'm Bardwell. I thought you was trying to sell me something on that cheap long
distance. It's way too late for any adjustment, I need the whole thing. Me and the wife
was in Little Rock, pulling out of the Southland Mall there?"
"Yessir."
"Durn rod come out through the oil pan. Oil all over everywhere and that Orkin
truck that's got the big bug on top of it? He hit that oil and got sideways."
"Lord have mercy."
"Knocked the Fotomat booth slap off the blocks and the glass fell out. Fotomat
fella come wandering out addled. Had to keep him out of the road."
"Well I'll be. What happened to it then?"
"What happened to what?"
"'The car."
"I told Buddy Sipper at the wrecking yard he could have it for fifty if he'd come
get it. I expect he's parted it out."
"Could you tell me what his telephone number is, Mr. Bardwell?"
"What do you want with Sipper? If anybody gets something out of it, it ought to
be me."
"I understand that, sir. I just do what they tell me till five o'clock, and they said
find the car. Have you got that number, please?"
"I can't find my phone book. It's been gone a good while now. You know how it is
with these grandbabies. Central ought to give it to you, it's Sipper Salvage."
"Much oblige, Mr. Bardwell."
The salvage yard confirmed that the automobile had Been stripped and pressed
into a cube to be recycled. The foreman read Starling the vehicle serial number from his
records.
Shit House Mouse, thought Starling, not entirely out of the accent. Dead end.
Some Valentine.
Starling rested her head against the cold coin box in the telephone booth. Ardelia
Mapp, her books on her hip, pecked on the door of the booth and handed in an Orange
Crush.
"Much oblige, Ardelia. I got to make one more call. If I can get done with that in
time, I'll catch up with you in the cafeteria, okay?"
"I was so in hopes you'd overcome that ghastly dialect," Mapp said. "Books are
available to help you. I never use the colorful patois of my housing project anymore. You
come talking that mushmouth, people say you eat up with the dumb-ass, girl." Mapp
closed the phone booth door.
Starling felt she had to try for more information from Lecter. If she already had
the appointment, maybe Crawford would let her return to the asylum. She dialed Dr.
Chilton's number, but she never got past his secretary.
"Dr. Chilton is with the coroner and the assistant district attorney," the woman
said. "He's already spoken to your supervisor and he has nothing to say to you. Goodbye."
CHAPTER 7
"Your friend Miggs is dead," Crawford said. "Did you tell me everything,
Starling?" Crawford's tired face was as sensitive to signals as the dished ruff of an owl,
and as free of mercy.
"How?" She felt numb and she had to handle it.
"Swallowed his tongue sometime before daylight. Letter suggested it to him,
Chilton thinks. The overnight orderly -heard Lecter talking softly to Miggs. Lecter knew
a lot about Miggs. He talked to him for a little while, but the overnight couldn't hear what
Lecter said. Miggs was crying for a while, and then he stopped. Did you tell me
everything, Starling?"
"Yes sir. Between the report and my memo, there's everything, almost verbatim."
"Chilton called up to complain about you..." Crawford waited, and seemed
pleased when she wouldn't ask. "I told him I found your behavior satisfactory. Chilton's
trying to forestall a civil rights investigation."
"Will there be one?"
"Sure, if Miggs' family wants it. Civil Rights Division will do probably eight
thousand this year. They'll be glad to add Miggs to the list." Crawford studied her. "You
okay?"
"I don't know how to feel about it."
"You don't have to feel any particular way about it. Lecter did it to amuse himself.
He knows they can't really touch him for it, so why not? Chilton takes his books and his
toilet seat for a while is all, and he doesn't get any Jell-O." Crawford laced his fingers
over his stomach and compared his thumbs. "Lecter asked you about me, didn't he?"
"He asked if you were busy. I said yes."
"That's all? You didn't leave out anything personal because I wouldn't want to see
it?"
"No. He said you were a Stoic, but I put that in."
"Yes, you did. Nothing else?"
"No, I didn't leave anything out. You don't think I traded some kind of gossip, and
that's why he talked to me."
"No."
"I don't know anything personal about you, and if I did I wouldn't discuss it. If
you've got a problem believing that, let's get it straight now."
"I'm satisfied. Next item. "
"You thought something, or---"
"Proceed to the next item, Starling."
"Lecter s hint about Raspail's car is a dead end. It was mashed into a cube four
months ago in Number Nine Ditch, Arkansas, and sold for recycling. Maybe if I go back
in and talk to him, he'll tell me more."
"You've exhausted the lead?"
"Yes."
"Why do you think the car Raspail drove was his only car?"
"It was the only one registered, he was single, I assumed---"
"Aha, hold it." Crawford's forefinger pointed to some principle invisible in the air
between them. "You assumed. You assumed, Starling. Look here." Crawford wrote
assume on a legal pad. Several of Starling's instnictors had picked this up from Crawford
and used it, but Starling didn't reveal that she'd seen it before.
Crawford began to underline: "If you assume when I send you on a job, Starling,
you can make an ass out of u and me both." He leaned back, pleased: "Raspail collected
cars, did you know that?"
"No, does the estate still have them?"
"I don't know. Do you think you could manage to find out?"
"Yes, I can."
"Where would you start?"
"His executor."
"A lawyer in Baltimore, a Chinese, I seem to remember," Crawford said.
"Everett Yow," Starling said: "He's in the Baltimore phone book."
"Have you given any thought to the question of a warrant to search Raspail's car?"
Sometimes Crawford's tone reminded Starling of the know-it-all caterpillar in
Lewis Carroll.
Starling didn't dare give it back, much. "Since Raspail is deceased and riot
suspected of anything, if we have permission of his executor to search the car, then it is a
valid search, and the fruit admissible evidence in other matters at law," she recited.
"Precisely," Crawford said. "Tell you what: I'll advise the Baltimore field office
you'll be up there. Saturday, Starling, on your own time. Go feel the fruit, if there is any."
Crawford made a small, successful effort not to look after her as she left. From his
wastebasket he lifted in the fork of his fingers a wad of heavy mauve notegaper. He
spread it on his desk. It was about his wife and it said, in an engaging hand:
O wrangling schools, that search what fire
Shall burn this world, had none the wit
Unto this knowledge to aspire
That this her fever might be it?
I'm so sorry about Bella, Jack.
Hannibal Lecter

CHAPTER 8
Everett Yow drove a black Buick with a De Paul University sticker on the back
window. His weight gave the Buick a slight list to the left as Clarice Starling followed
him out of Baltimore in the rain. It was almost dark; Starling's day as an investigator was
nearly gone and she didn't have another day to replace it. She dealt with her impatience,
tapping the wheel in time with the wipers as the traffic crawled down Route 301.
Yow was intelligent, fat, and had a breathing problem. Starling guessed his age at
sixty. So far he was accommodating. The lost day was not his fault; returning in the late
afternoon from a week-long business trip to Chicago, the Baltimore lawyer had come
directly from the airport to his office to meet Starling.
Raspail's classic Packard had been stored since long before his death, Yow
explained. It was unlicensed and never driven. Yow had seen it once, covered and in
storage, to confirm its existence for the estate inventory he made shortly after his client's
murder. If Investigator Starling would agree to "frankly disclose at once" anything she
found that might be damaging to his late client's interests, he would show her the
automobile, he said. A warrant and the attendant stir would not be necessary.
Starling was enjoying the use for one day of an FBI motor pool Plymouth with a
cellular telephone, and she had a new ID card provided by Crawford. It simply said
FEDERAL INVESTIGATOR --- and expired in a week, she noticed.
Their destination was Split City Mini-Storage, about four miles past the city
limits. Creeping along with the traffic, Starling used her telephone to find out what she
could about the storage facility. By the time she spotted the high orange sign, SLIT CITY
MINI-STORAGE --- YOU KEEP THE KEY, she had learned a few facts.
Split City had an Interstate Commerce Commission freight-forwarder's license, in
the name of Bernard Gary. A federal grand jury had barely missed Gary for interstate
transportation of stolen goods three years ago, and his license was up for review.
Yow turned in beneath the sign and showed his keys to a spotty young man in
uniform at the gate. The gatekeeper logged their license numbers, opened up and
beckoned impatiently, as though he had more important things to do.
Split City is a bleak place the wind blows through. Like the Sunday divorce flight
from La Guardia to Juárez, it is a service industry to the mindless Brownian movement in
our population; most of its business is storing the sundered chattels of divorce. Its units
are stacked with living room suites, breakfast ensembles, spotted mattresses, toys, and the
photographs of things that didn't work out. It is widely believed among Baltimore County
sheriff's officers that Split City also hides good and valuable consideration from the
bankruptcy courts.
It resembles a military installation: thirty acres of long buildings divided by fire
walls into units the size of a generous single garage, each with its roll-up overhead door.
The rates are reasonable and some of the property has been there for years. Security is
good. The place is surrounded by a double row of high hurricane fence, and dogs patrol
between the fences twenty-four hours a day.
Six inches of sodden leaves, mixed with paper cups and small trash, had banked
against the bottom of the of Raspail's storage unit, number 31. A hefty padlock secured
each side of the door. The left-side hasp also had a seal on it. Everett Yow bent stiffly
over the seal. Starling held the umbrella and a flashlight in the early dark.
"It doesn't appear to have been opened since I was five years ago," he said. "You
see the impression my notary seal here in the plastic. I had no idea at the time that the
relatives would be so contentious and would drag out the probate for so many years."
Yow held the flashlight and umbrella while Starling took a picture of the lock and
seal.
"Mr. Raspail had an office-studio in the city, which I closed down to save the
estate from paying rent," he said. "I had the furnishings brought here and stored them
with Raspail's car and other things that were already here. We brought an upright piano,
books and music, a bed, I think."
Yow tried a key. "The locks may be frozen. At least this one's very stiff." It was
hard for him to bend over and breathe at the same time. When he tried to squat, his knees
creaked.
Starling was glad to see that the padlocks were big chrome American Standards.
They looked formidable, but she knew she could pop the brass cylinders out easily with a
sheet metal screw and a claw hammer--- her father had showed her how burglars do it
when she was a child. The problem would be finding the hammer and screw; she did not
even have the benefit of the resident junk in her Pinto.
She poked through her purse and found the de-icer spray she used on her Pinto's
door locks.
"Want to rest a second in your car, Mr. Yow? Why don't you warm up for a few
minutes and I'll give this a try. Take the umbrella, it's only a drizzle now."
Starling moved the FBI Plymouth up close to the door to use its headlights. She
pulled the dipstick out of the car and dripped oil into the keyholes of the padlocks, then
sprayed in de-icer to thin the oil. Mr. Yow smiled and nodded from his car. Starling was
glad Yow was an intelligent man; she could perform her task without alienating him.
It was dark now. She felt exposed in the glare of the Plymouth's headlights and
the fan belt squealed in her ear as the car idled. She'd locked the car while it was running.
Mr. Yow appeared to be harmless, but she saw no reason to take a chance on being
mashed against the door.
The padlock jumped like a frog in her hand and lay there open, heavy and greasy.
The other lock, having soaked, was easier.
The door would not come up. Starling lifted on the handle until bright spots
danced before her eyes. Yow came to help, but between the small, inadequate door
handle and his hernia, they exerted little additional force.
"We might return next week, with my son, or with some workmen," Mr. Yow
suggested. "I would like very much to go home soon."
Starling was not at all sure she'd ever get back to this place; it would be less
trouble to Crawford if he just picked up the telephone and had the Baltimore field office
handle it. "Mr. Yow, I'll hurry. Do you have a bumper jack in this car?"
With the jack under the handle of the door, Starling used her weight on top of the
lug wrench that served as a jack handle. The door squealed horribly and went up a halfinch. It appeared to be bending upward in the center. The door went up another inch and
another until she could slide the spark tire under it, to hold it up while she moved Mr.
Yow's jack and her own to the sides of the door, placing them under the bottom edge,
close to the tracks the door ran in.
Alternating at the jacks on each side, she inched the door up a foot and a half,
where it jammed solidly and her full weight on the jack handles would not raise it.
Mr. Yow came to peer under the door with her. He could only bend over for a few
seconds at a time.
"It smells like mice in there," he said. "I was assured they used rodent poison
here. I believe it is specified in contract. Rodents are almost unknown, they said. but I
hear them, do you?"
"I hear them," Starling said. With her flashlight, she could pick out cardboard
boxes and one big tire with wide whitewall beneath the edge of a cloth cover. The tire
was flat.
She backed the Plymouth up until part of the headlight pattern shone under the
door, and she took out one of the rubber floor mats.
"You're going in there, Officer Starling?"
"I have to take a look, Mr. Yow."
He took out his handkerchief. "May I suggest you tie your cuffs snugly around
your ankles? To prevent mouse intrusion."
"Thank you, sir, that's a very good idea. Mr. Yow, if the door should come down,
ha ha, or something else should occur, would you be kind enough to call this number? It's
our Baltimore field office. They know I'm here with you right now, and they'll be alarmed
if they don't hear from me in a little while, do you follow me?"
"Yes, of course. Absolutely, I do." He gave her the key to the Packard.
Starling put the rubber. mat on the, wet ground in front of the door and lay down
on it, her hand cupping a pack of plastic evidence bags over the lens of her camera and
her cuffs tied snugly with Yow s handkerchief and her own. A mist of rain fell in her
face, and the smell of mold and mice was strong in her nose. What occurred to Starling
was, absurdly, Latin.
Written on the blackboard by her forensics instructor on her first day in training, it
was the motto of the Roman physician: Primum non nocere. First do no harm.
He didn't say that in a garage full of fucking mice.
And suddenly her father's voice, speaking to her with his hand on her brother's
shoulder, "If you can't play without squawling, Clarice, go on to the house."
Starling fastened the collar button of her blouse, scrunched her shoulders up
around her neck and slid under the door.
She was beneath the rear of the Packard. It was parked close to the left side of the
storage room, almost touching the wall. Cardboard boxes were stacked high on the right
side of the room, filling the space beside the car. Starling wriggled along on her back
until her head was out in the narrow gap left between the car and the boxes. She shined
her flashlight up the cliff face of boxes. Many spiders had spanned the narrow space with
their webs. Orb weavers, mostly, the webs dotted with small shriveled carcasses tightly
bound.
Well, a brown recluse spider is the only kind to worry about, and it wouldn't build
out in the open, Starling said to herself. The rest don't raise much of a welt.
There would be space to stand beside the rear fender. She wriggled around until
she was out from under the car, her face close beside the wide whitewall tire. It was
hatched with dry rot. She could read the words GOODYEAR DOUBLE EAGLE on it.
Careful of her head, she got to her feet in the narrow space, hand before her face to break
the webs. Was this how it felt to wear a veil?
Mr. Yow's voice from outside. "Okay, Miss Starling?„
"Okay," she said. There were small scurryings at the sound of her voice, and,
something inside a piano climbed over a few high notes. The car lights from outside lit
her legs up to the calf.
"So you found the piano, Officer Starling," Mr. Yow called.
"That wasn't me."
"Oh."
The car was big, tall and long. A 1938 Packard limousine, according to Yow's
inventory. It was covered with a rug, the plush side down. She played her flashlight over
it.
"Did you cover the car with this rug, Mr. Yow?"
"I found it that way and I never uncovered it," Yow called under the door. "I can't
deal with a dusty rug. That's the way Raspail had it. I just made sure the car vas there. My
movers put the piano against the wall and covered it and stacked more boxes beside the
car and left. I was paying them by the hour. The boxes are sheet music and books,
mostly."
The rug was thick and heavy and as she tugged at it, dust swarmed in the beam of
her flashlight. She sneezed twice. Standing on tiptoe, she could fold the rug over to the
midline of the tall old car. The curtains were drawn in the back windows. The door
handle was covered with dust. She had to lean forward over cartons to reach it. Touching
only the end of the handle, she tried to turn it downward. Locked. There was no keyhole
in the rear door. She'd have to move a lot of boxes to get to the front door, and there was
damn little place to put them. She could see a small gap between the curtain and the post
of the rear window.
Starling leaned over boxes to put her eye close to the glass and shined her light
through the crack. She could only see her reflection until she cupped her hand on top of
the light. A splinter of the beam, diffused by the dusty glass, moved across the seat. An
album lay open on the seat. The colors were poor in the bad light, but she could see
Valentines pasted on the pages. Lacy old Valentines, fluffy on the page.
"Thanks a lot, Dr. Lecter." When she spoke, her breath stirred the fuzz of dust on
the windowsill and fogged the glass. She didn't want to wipe it, so she had to wait for it to
clear. The light moved on, over a lap rug crumpled on the floor of the car and onto the
dusty wink of a pair of man's patent leather evening shoes. Above the shoes, black socks
and above the socks were tuxedo trousers with legs in them.
Nobody'sbeeninthatdoorinfiveyears--- easy, easy, hold it baby.
"Oh, Mr. Yow. Say, Mr. Yow?"
"Yes, Officer Starling?"
"Mr. Yow, looks like somebody's sitting in this car."
"Oh my. Maybe you better come out, Miss Starling."
"Not quite yet, Mr. Yow. Just wait there, if you will, please."
Now is when it's important to think. Now is more important than all the crap you
tell your pillow for the rest of your life. Suck it up and do this right. I don't want to
destroy evidence. I do want some help. But most of all I don't want to cry wolf. If I
scramble the Baltimore office and the cops out here for nothing, I've had it. I see what
looks like some legs. Mr. Yow would not have brought me here if he'd known there was a
cool one in the car. She managed to smile at herself. "Cool one" was bravado. Nobody's
been here since Yow's last visit. All right, that means the boxes were put here after
whatever's in the car. And that means I can move the boxes without losing anything
important.
"All right, Mr. Yow."
"Yes. Do we have to call the police, or are you sufficient, Officer Starling?"
"I've got to find that out. Just wait right there, please."
The box problem was as maddening as Rubik's Cube. She tried to work with the
flashlight under her arm, dropped it twice, and finally put it on top of the car. She had to
put boxes behind her, and some of the shorter box cartons would slide under the car.
Some kind of bite or splinter made the ball of her thumb itch.
Now she could see through the dusty glass of the front passenger's side window
into the chauffeur's compartment. A spider had spun between the big steering wheel and
the gearshift. The partition between the front and back compartments was closed.
She wished she had thought to oil the Packard key before she came under the
door, but when she stuck it the lock, it worked.
There was hardly room to open the door more than a third of the way in the
narrow passage. It swung against the boxes with a thump that sent the mice scratching
and brought additional notes from the piano. A stale smell of decay and chemical came
out of the car. It jogged her memory in a place she couldn't name.
She leaned inside, opened the partition behind the chauffeur's seat, and shined her
flashlight into the rear compartment of the car. A formal shirt with studs was the bright
thing the light found first, quickly up the shirtfront to the face, no face to see, and down
again, over glittering shirt studs and satin lapels to a lap with zipper open, and up again to
the neat bow tie and the collar, where the white stub neck of a mannequin protruded. But
above the neck, something, else that reflected little light. Cloth, a black hood where the
head should be, big, as though it covered a parrot's cage. Velvet, Starling thought. It sat
on a plywood shelf extending over the neck of the mannequin from the parcel shelf
behind.
She took several pictures from the front seat, focusing with the flashlight and
closing her eyes against the flash of the strobe. Then she straightened up outside the car.
Standing in the dark, wet, with cobwebs on her, she considered what to do.
What she was not going to do was summon the special agent in charge of the
Baltimore field office to look at a mannequin with its fly open and a book of Valentines.
Once she decided to get in the backseat and take the hood off the thing, she didn't
want to think about it very long. She reached through the chauffeur's partition, unlocked
the rear door, and rearranged some boxes to get it open. It all seemed to take a long time.
The smell from the rear compartment was much stronger when she opened the door. She
reached in and, carefully lifting the Valentine album by the corners, moved it onto an
evidence bag on top of the car. She spread another evidence bag on the seat.
The car springs groaned as she got inside and the figure shifted a little when she
sat down beside it. The right hand in its white glove slid off the thigh and lay on the seat.
She touched the glove with her finger. The hand inside was hard. Gingerly she pushed the
glove down from the wrist. The wrist was some white synthetic material. There was a
lump in the trousers that for a silly instant reminded her of certain events in high school.
Small scrambling noises came from under the seat.
Gentle as a caress, her hand touching the hood. The cloth moved easily over
something hard and slick beneath. When she felt the round knob on the top, she knew.
She knew that it was a big laboratory specimen jar and she knew what would be in it.
With dread, but little doubt, she pulled off the cover.
The head inside the jar had been severed neatly close beneath the jaw. It faced
her, the eyes long burned milky by the alcohol that preserved it. The mouth was open and
the tongue protruded slightly, very gray. Over the years, the alcohol had evaporated to the
point that the head rested on the bottom of the jar, its crown protruding through the
surface of the fluid in a cap of decay. Turned at an owlish angle to the body beneath, it
gaped stupidly at Starling. Even in the play of light over the features, it remained dumb
and dead.
Starling, in this moment, examined herself. She was pleased. She was exhilarated.
She wondered for a second if those were worthy feelings. Now, at this moment, sitting in
this old car with a head and some mice, she could think clearly, and she was proud of
that.
"Well, Toto," she said, "we're not in Kansas anymore." She'd always wanted to
say that under stress, but doing it left her feeling phony,, and she was glad nobody had
heard. Work to do.
She sat back gingerly and looked around.
This was somebody's environment, chosen and created, a thousand light-years
across the mind from the traffic crawling down Route 301.
Dried blossoms dropped from the cut-crystal bud vases on the pillars. The
limousine's table was folded down and covered with a linen cloth. On it, a decanter
gleamed through dust. A spider had built between the decanter and the short candlestick
beside it.
She tried to picture Lecter, or someone, sitting here with her present companion
and having a drink and trying to show him the Valentines. And what else? Working
carefully, disturbing the figure as little as possible, she frisked it for identification. There
was none. In a jacket pocket she found the bands of material left over from adjusting the
length of the trousers--- the dinner clothes were probably new when they were put on the
figure.
Starling poked the lump in the trousers. Too hard, even for high school, she
reflected. She spread the fly with her fingers and shined her light inside, on dildo of
polished, inlaid wood. Good-sized one, too. She wondered if she was depraved.
Carefully she turned the jar and examined the sides and back of the head for wounds. There were none visible. The name of a laboratory supply company was cast in
the glass.
Considering the face again, she believed she learned something that would last
her. Looking with purpose at this face, with its tongue changing color where it touched
the glass, was not as bad as Miggs swallowing his tongue in her dreams. She felt she
could look at anything, if she had something positive to do about it. Starling was young.
----------
In the ten seconds after her WPIK-TV mobile news unit slid to a stop, Jonetta
Johnson put in her earrings, powdered her beautiful brown face, and cased the situation.
She and her news crew, monitoring the Baltimore County police radio, had arrived at
Split City ahead of the patrol cars.
All the news crew saw in their headlights was Clarice Starling, standing in front
of the garage door with her flashlight and her little laminated ID card, her hair plastered
down by the drizzle.
Jonetta Johnson could spot a rookie every time. She climbed out with the camera
crew behind her and approached Starling. The bright lights came on.
Mr. Yow sank so far down in his Buick that only his hat was visible above the
window sill.
"Jonetta Johnson, WPIK news, did you report a homicide?"
Starling did not look like very much law and she knew it. "I'm a federal officer,
this is a crime scene. I have to secure it until the Baltimore authorities---"
The assistant cameraman had grabbed the bottom of the garage door and was
trying to lift it.
"Hold it," Starling said. "I'm talking to you, sir. Hold it. Back off, please. I'm not
kidding with you. Help me out here." She wished hard for a badge, a uniform, anything.
"Okay, Harry," the newswoman said. "Ah, officer, we want to cooperate in every
way. Frankly, this crew costs money and I just want to know whether to even keep them
here until the other authorities arrive. Will you tell me if there's a body in there? Camera's
off, just between us. Tell me and we'll wait. We'll be good, I promise. How about it?"
"I'd wait if I were you," Starling said.
"Thanks, you won't be sorry," Jonetta Johnson said. "Look, I've got some
information on Split City Mini-Storage that you could probably use. Would you shine
your light on the clipboard? Let's see if I can find it here."
"WEYE mobile unit just turned in at the gate, Joney," the man, Harry, said.
"Let's see if I can find it here, Officer, here it is. There was a scandal about two
years ago when they tried to prove this place was trucking and storing--- was it
fireworks?" Jonetta Johnson glanced over Starling's shoulder once too often.
Starling turned to see the cameraman on his back, his head and shoulders in the
garage, the assistant squatting beside him, ready to pass the minicam under the door.
"Hey!" Starling said. She dropped to her knees on the wet ground beside him and
tugged at his shirt. "You can't go in there. Hey! I told you not to do that."
And all the time the men were talking to her, constantly, gently. "We won't touch
anything. We're pros, you don't have to worry. The cops will let us in anyway. It's all
right, honey."
Their cozening backseat manner put her over.
She ran to a bumper jack at the end of the door and pumped the handle: The door
came down two inches, with a grinding screech. She pumped it again. Now the door was
touching the man's chest. When he didn't come out, she pulled the handle out of the
socket and carried it back to the prone cameraman. There were other bright television
lights now, and in the glare of them she banged the door above him hard with the jack
handle, showering dust and rust down on him.
"Give me your attention," she said. "You don't listen, do you? Come out of there.
Now. You're one second from arrest for obstruction of justice."
"Take it easy," the assistant said. He put his hand on her. She turned on him.
There were shouted questions from behind the glare and she heard sirens.
"Hands off and back off, buster." She stood on the cameraman's ankle and faced
the assistant, the jack handle hanging by her side. She did not raise the jack handle. It was
just as well. She looked bad enough on television as it was.
CHAPTER 9
The odors of the violent ward seemed more intense in the semidarkness. A TV set
playing without sound in the corridor threw Starling's shadow on the bars of Dr. Lecter's
cage.
She could not see into the dark behind the bars, but she didn't ask the orderly to
turn up the lights from his station. The whole ward would light at once and she knew the
Baltimore County police had had the lights full on for hours while they shouted questions
at Lecter. He had refused to speak, but responded by folding for them an origami chicken
that pecked when the tail was manipulated up and down. The senior officer, furious, had
crushed the chicken in the lobby ashtray as he gestured for Starling to go in.
"Dr. Lecter?" She heard her own breathing, and breathing down the hall, but from
Miggs' empty cell, no breathing. Miggs' cell was vastly empty. She felt its silence like a
draft.
Starling knew Lecter was watching her from the darkness. Two minutes passed.
Her legs and back ached from her struggle with the garage door, and her clothes were
damp. She sat on her coat on the floor, well back from the bars, her feet tucked under her,
and lifted her wet, bedraggled hair over her collar to get it off her neck.
Behind her on the TV screen, an evangelist waved his arms.
"Dr. Lecter, we both know what this is. They think you'll talk to me."
Silence. Down the hall, someone whistled "Over the Sea to Skye."
After five minutes, she said, "It was strange going in there. Sometime I'd like to
talk to you about it."
Starling jumped when the food carrier rolled out of Lecter's cell. There was a
clean, folded towel in the tray. She hadn't heard him move.
She looked at it and, with a sense of falling, took it and toweled her hair.
"Thanks," she said.
"Why don't you ask me about Buffalo Bill?" His voice was close, at her level. He
must be sitting on the floor too.
"Do you know something about him?"
"I might if I saw the case."
"I don't have that case," Starling said.
"You won't have this one, either, when they're through using you."
"I know."
"You could get the files on Buffalo Bill. The reports and the pictures. I'd like to
see it."
I'll bet you would. "Dr. Lecter, you started this. Now please tell me about the
person in the Packard."
"You found an entire person? Odd. I only saw a head. Where do you suppose the
rest came from?"
"All right. Whose head was it?"
"What can you tell?"
"They've only done the preliminary stuff. White male, about twenty-seven, both
American and European dentistry. Who was he?"
"Raspail's lover. Raspail, of the gluey flute."
"What were the circumstances--- how did he die?"
"Circumlocution, Officer Starling?"
"No, I'll ask it later."
"Let me save you some time. I didn't do it; Raspail did. Raspail liked sailors. This
was a Scandinavian one named Klaus something. Raspail never told me the last name."
Dr. Lecter's voice moved lower. Maybe he was lying on the floor, Starling
thought.
"Klaus was off a Swedish boat in San Diego. Raspail was out there teaching for a
summer at the conservatory. He went berserk over the young man. The Swede saw a
good thing and jumped his boat. They bought some kind of awful camper and sylphed
through the woods naked. Raspail said the young man was unfaithful and he strangled
him."
"Raspail told you this?"
"Oh yes, under the confidential seal of therapy sessions. I think it was a lie.
Raspail always embellished the facts. He wanted to seem dangerous and romantic. The
Swede probably died in some banal erotic asphyxia transaction. Raspail was too flabby
and weak to have strangled him. Notice how closely Klaus was trimmed under the jaw?
Probably to remove a high ligature mark from hanging."
"I see."
"Raspail's dream of happiness was ruined. He put Klaus' head in a bowling bag
and came back East."
"What did he do with the rest?"
"Buried it in the hills."
"He showed you the head in the car?"
"Oh yes, in the course of therapy he came to feel he could tell me anything. He
went out to sit with Klaus quite often and showed him the Valentines."
"And then Raspail himself... died. Why?"
"Frankly, I got sick and tired of his whining. Best thing for him, really. Therapy
wasn't going anywhere. I expect most psychiatrists have a patient or two they'd like to
refer to me. I've never discussed this before, and now I'm getting bored with it."
"And your dinner for the orchestra officials."
"Haven't you ever had people coming over and no time to shop? You have to
make do with what's in the fridge, Clarice. May I call you Clarice?"
"Yes. I think I'll just call you-"
"Dr. Lecter--- that seems most appropriate to your age and station," he said.
"Yes."
"How did you feel when you went into the garage?"
"Apprehensive."
"Why?"
"Mice and insects."
"Do you have something you use when you want to get up your nerve?" Dr.
Lecter asked.
"Nothing I know of that works, except wanting what I'm after."
"Do memories or tableaux occur to you then, whether you try for them or not?"
"Maybe. I haven't thought about it."
"Things from your early life."
"I'll have to watch and see."
"How did you feel when you heard about my late neighbor, Miggs? You haven't
asked me about it."
"I was getting to it."
"Weren't you glad when you heard?"
"No."
"Were you sad?"
"No. Did you talk him into it?"
Dr. Lecter laughed quietly. "Are you asking me, Officer Starling, if I suborned
Mr. Miggs' felony suicide? Don't be silly. It has a certain pleasant symmetry, though, his
swallowing that offensive tongue, don't you agree?"
"No."
"Officer Starling, that was a lie. The first one you've told me. A triste occasion,
Truman would say."
"President Truman?"
"Never mind. Why do you think I helped you?"
"I don't know."
"Jack Crawford likes you, doesn't he?"
"I don't know."
"That's probably untrue. Would you like for him to like you? Tell me, do you feel
an urge to please him and does it worry you? Are you wary of your urge to please him.
"Everyone wants to be liked, Dr. Lecter."
"Not everyone. Do you think Jack Crawford wants you sexually? I'm sure he's
very frustrated now. Do you think he visualizes... scenarios, transactions... fucking with
you?"
"That's not a matter of curiosity to me, Dr. Lecter, and it's the sort of thing Miggs
would ask."
"Not anymore."
"Did you suggest to him that he swallow his tongue?"
"Your interrogative case often has that proper subjunctive in it. With your accent,
it stinks of the lamp. Crawford clearly likes you and believes you competent. Surely the
odd confluence of events hasn't escaped you, Clarice--- you've had Crawford's help and
you've had mine. You say you don't know why Crawford helps you--- do you know why I
did?"
"No, tell me."
"Do you think it's because I like to look at you and think about eating you up---
about how you would taste?"
"Is that it?"
"No. I want something Crawford can give me and I want to trade him for it. But
he won't come to see me. He won't ask for my help with Buffalo Bill, even though he
knows it means more young women will die.
"I can't believe that, Dr. Lecter."
"I only want something very simple, and he could get it." Lecter turned up the
rheostat slowly in his cell. His books and drawings were gone. His toilet sat was gone.
Chilton had stripped the cell to punish for Miggs.
"I've been in this room eight years, Clarice. I know that they will never, ever let
me out while I'm alive. What I want is a view. I want a window where I can see a tree, or
even water."
"Has your attorney petitioned---"
"Chilton put that television in the hall, set to a religious channel. As soon as you
leave the orderly will turn the sound back up, and my attorney can't stop it, the way the
court is inclined toward me now. I want to be in a federal institution and I want my books
back and a view. I'll give good value for it. Crawford could do that. Ask him."
"I can tell him what you've said."
"He'll ignore it. And Buffalo Bill will go on and on. Wait until he scalps one and
see how you like it. Ummmm... I'll tell you one thing about Buffalo Bill without ever
seeing the case, and years from now when they catch him, if they ever do, you'll see that I
was right and I could have helped. I could have saved lives. Clarice?"
"Yes?"
"Buffalo Bill has a two-story house," Dr. Lecter said, and turned out his light.
He would not speak again.
CHAPTER 10
Clarice Starling leaned against a dice table in the FBI's casino and tried to pay
attention to a lecture on money-laundering in gambling. It had been thirty-six hours since
the Baltimore County police took her deposition (via a chain-smoking two-finger typist:
"See if you can get that window open if the smoke bothers you.") and dismissed her from
its jurisdiction with a reminder that murder is not a federal crime.
The network news on Sunday night showed Starling's scrap with the television
cameramen and she felt sure she was deep in the glue. Through it all, no word from
Crawford or from the Baltimore field office. It was as though she had dropped her report
down a hole.
The casino where she now stood was small--- it had operated in a moving trailer
truck until the FBI seized it and installed it in the school as a teaching aid. The narrow
room was crowded with police from many jurisdictions; Starling had declined with
thanks the chairs of two Texas Rangers and a Scotland Yard detective.
The rest of her class were down the hall in the Academy building, searching for
hairs in the genuine motel carpet of the "Sex-Crime Bedroom" and dusting the "Anytown
Bank" for fingerprints. Starling had spent so many hours on searches and fingerprints as a
Forensic Fellow that she was sent instead to this lecture, part of a series for visiting
lawmen.
She wondered if there was another reason she had been separated from the class:
maybe they isolate you before you get the ax.
Starling rested her elbows on the pass line of the dice table and tried to
concentrate on money-laundering in gambling. What she thought about instead was how
much the FBI hates to see its agents on television, outside of official news conferences.
Dr. Hannibal Lecter was catnip to the media, and the Baltimore police had
happily supplied Starling's name to reporters. Over and over she saw herself on the
Sunday-night network news. There was "Starling of the FBI" in Baltimore, banging the
jack handle against the garage door as the cameraman tried to slither under it. And here
was "Federal Agent Starling" turning on the assistant with the jack handle in her hand.
On the rival network, station WPIK, lacking film of its own, had announced a
personal-injury lawsuit against "Starling of the FBI" and the Bureau itself because the
cameraman got dirt and rust particles in his eyes when Starling banged the door.
Jonetta Johnson of WPIK was on coast-to-coast with the revelation that Starling
had found the remains in the garage through an "eerie bonding with a man authorities
have branded... a monster!" Clearly, WPIK had a source at the hospital.
BRIDE OF FRANKENSTEIN!! screamed the National Tattler from its
supermarket racks.
There was no public comment from the FBI, but there was plenty inside the
Bureau, Starling was sure.
At breakfast, one of her classmates, a young man who wore a lot of Canoe aftershave, had referred to Starling as "Melvin Pelvis," a stupid play on the name of Melvin
Purvis, Hoover's number-one G-man in the thirties. What Ardelia Mapp said to the young
man made his face turn white, and he left his breakfast uneaten on the table.
Now Starling found herself in a curious state in which she could not be surprised.
For a day and a night she'd felt suspended in a diver's ringing silence. She intended to
defend herself, if she got the chance.
The lecturer spun the roulette wheel as he talked, but he never let the ball drop.
Looking at him, Starling was convinced that he had never let the ball drop in his life. He
was saying something now: "Clarice Starling." Why was he saying "Clarice, Starling?"
That's me.
"Yes," she said.
The lecturer pointed with his chin at the door behind her. Here it came. Her fate
shied under her as she turned to see. But it was Brigham, the gunnery instructor, leaning
into the room to point to her across the crowd. When she saw him, he beckoned.
For a second she thought they were throwing her out, but that wouldn't be
Brigham's job.
"Saddle up, Starling. Where's your field gear?" he said in the hall.
"My room--- C Wing."
She had to walk fast then to keep up with him.
He was carrying the big fingerprint kit from the property room--- the good one,
not the play-school kit--- and a small canvas bag.
"You go with Jack Crawford today. Take stuff for overnight. You may be back,
but take it."
"Where?"
"Some duck hunters in West Virginia found a body in the Elk River around
daylight. In a Buffalo Bill-type situation. Deputies are bringing it out. It's real boonies,
and Jack's not inclined to wait on those guys for details." Brigham stopped at the door to
C Wing. "He needs somebody to help him that can print a floater, among other things.
You were a grunt in the lab--- you can do that, right?"
"Yeee, let me check the stuff."
Brigham held the fingerprint kit open while Starling lifted out the trays. The fine
hypodermics and the vials were there, but the camera wasn't.
"I need the one-to-one Polaroid, the CU-5, Mr. Brigham, and film packs and
batteries for it."
"From property? You got it."
He handed her the small canvas bag, and when she felt its weight, she realized
why it was Brigham who had come for her.
"You don't have a duty piece yet, right?"
"No."
"You gotta have full kit. This is the rig you've been wearing on the range. The gun
is my own. It's the same K-frame Smith you're trained with, but the action's cleaned up.
Dry-fire it in your room tonight when you get the chance. I'll be in a car behind C Wing
in ten minutes flat with the camera. Listen, there's no head in the Blue Canoe. Go to the
bathroom while you've got the chance is my advice. Chop-chop, Starling."
She tried to ask him a question, but he was leaving her.
Has to be Buffalo Bill, if Crawford's going himself. What the hell is the Blue
Canoe? But you have to think about packing when you pack. Starling packed fast and
well.
"Is it---"
"That's okay," Brigham interrupted as she got in the car. "The butt prints against
your jacket a little if somebody's looking for it, but it's okay for now." She was wearing
the snub-nosed revolver under her blazer in a pancake holster snug against her ribs, with
a speedloader straddling her belt on the other side.
Brigham drove at precisely the base speed limit toward the Quantico airstrip.
He cleared his throat. "One good thing about the range, Starling, is there's no
politics out there."
"No?"
"You were right to secure that garage up at Baltimore there. You worried about
the TV?"
"Should I be?"
"We're talking just us, right?"
"Right."
Brigham returned the greeting of a Marine directing traffic.
"Taking you along today, Jack's showing confidence in you where nobody can
miss it," he said. "In case, say, somebody in the Office of Professional Responsibility has
your jacket in front of him and his bowels in an uproar, understand what I'm telling you?"
"Ummm."
"Crawford's a stand-up guy. He made it clear where it matters that you had to
secure the scene. He let you go in there bare--- that is, bare of all your visible symbols of
authority, and he said that too. And the response time of the Baltimore cops was pretty
slow. Also, Crawford needs the help today, and he'd have to wait an hour for Jimmy Price
to get somebody here from the lab. So you got it cut out for you, Starling. A floater's no
day at the beach, either. It's not punishment for you, but if somebody outside needed to
see it that way, they could. See, Crawford is a very subtle guy, but he's not inclined to
explain things, that's why I'm telling you... If you're working with Crawford, you should
know what the deal is with him--- do you know?"
"I really don't."
"He's got a lot on his mind besides Buffalo Bill. His wife Bella's real sick. She's...
in a terminal situation. He's keeping her at home. If it wasn't for Buffalo Bill, he'd have
taken compassionate leave."
"I didn't know that."
"It's not discussed. Don't tell him you're sorry or anything, it doesn't help him...
they had a good time."
"I'm glad you told me."
Brigham brightened as they reached the airstrip. "I've got a couple of important
speeches I give at the end of the firearms course, Starling, try not to miss them." He took
a shortcut between some hangars.
"I will."
"Listen, what I teach is something you probably won't ever have to do. I hope you
won't. But you've got some aptitude, Starling. If you have to shoot, you can shoot. Do
your exercises."
"Right."
"Don't ever put it in your purse."
"Right."
"Pull it a few times in your room at night. Stay so you can find it."
"I will."
A venerable twin-engined Beechcraft stood on the taxiway at the Quantico airstrip
with its beacons turning and the door open. One propeller was spinning, riffling the grass
beside the tarmac.
"That wouldn't be the Blue Canoe," Starling said.
"Yep."
"It's little and it's old."
"It is old," Brigham said cheerfully. "Drug Enforcement seized it in Florida a long
time ago, when it flopped in the 'Glades. Mechanically sound now, though. I hope
Gramm and Rudman don't find out we're using it--- we're supposed to ride the bus." He
pulled up beside the airplane and got Starling's baggage out of the backseat. In some
confusion of hands he managed to, give her the stuff and shake her hand.
And then, without meaning to, Brigham said, "Bless you, Starling." The words
felt odd in his Marine mouth. He didn't know where they came from and his face felt hot.
"Thanks... thank you, Mr. Brigham."
Crawford was in the copilot's seat, in shirtsleeves and sunglasses. He turned to
Starling when he heard the pilot slam the door.
She couldn't see his eyes behind the dark glasses, and she felt she didn't know
him. Crawford looked pale and tough, like a root a bulldozer pushes up.
"Take a pew and read," is all he said.
A thick case file lay on the seat behind him. The cover said BUFFALO BILL.
Starling hugged it tight as the Blue Canoe blatted and shuddered and began to roll.
CHAPTER 11
The edges of the runway blurred and fell away. To the east, a flash of morning
sun off the Chesapeake Bay as the small plane turned out of traffic.
Clarice Starling could see the school down there, and the surrounding Marine
base at Quantico. On the assault course, tiny figures of Marines scrambled and ran.
This was how it looked from above.
Once after a night-firing exercise, walking in the dark along the deserted Hogan's
Alley, walking to think, she had heard airplanes roar over and then, in the new silence,
voices calling in the black sky above her--- airborne troops in a night jump calling to each
other as they came down through the darkness. And she wondered how it felt to wait for
the jump light at the aircraft door, how it felt to plunge into the bellowing dark.
Maybe it felt like this.
She opened the file.
He had done it five times that they knew of, had Bill. At least five times, and
probably more, over the past ten months he had abducted a woman, killed her and
skinned her. (Starling's eye raced down the autopsy protocols to the free histamine tests
to confirm that he killed them before he did the rest.)
He dumped each body in running water when he was through with it. Each was
found in a different river, downstream from an interstate highway crossing, each in a
different state. Everyone knew Buffalo Bill was a traveling man. That was all the law
knew about him, absolutely all, except that he had at least one gun. It had six lands and
grooves, left-hand twist--- possibly a Colt revolver or a Colt clone. Skidmarks on
recovered bullets indicated he preferred to fire .38 Specials in the longer chambers of a
.357.
The rivers left no fingerprints, no trace evidence of hair or fiber.
He was almost certain to be a white male: white because serial murderers usually
kill within their own ethnic group and all the victims were white; male because female
serial murderers are almost unknown in our time.
Two big-city columnists had found a headline in e.e. cummings' deadly little
poem "Buffalo Bill":... how do you like your blueeyed boy Mister Death
Someone, maybe Crawford, had pasted the quotation inside the cover of the file.
There was no clear correlation between where Bill abducted the young women
and where he dumped them.
In the cases where the bodies were found soon enough for an accurate
determination of time of death, police learned another thing the killer did: Bill kept them
for a while, alive. These victims did not die until a week to ten days after they were
abducted. That meant he had to have a place to keep them and a place to work in privacy.
It meant he wasn't a drifter. He was more of a trapdoor spider. With his own digs. Somewhere.
That horrified the public more than anything--- his holding them for a week or
more, knowing he would kill them.
Two were hanged, three shot. There was no evidence of rape or physical abuse
prior to death, and the autopsy protocols recorded no evidence of "specifically genital"
disfigurement, though pathologists noted it would be almost impossible to determine
these things in the more deteriorated bodies.
All were found naked. In two cases, articles of the victims' outer clothing were
found beside the road near their homes, slit up the back like funeral suits.
Starling got through the photographs all right. Floaters are the worst kind of dead
to deal with, physically. There is an absolute pathos about them, too, as there often is
about homicide victims out of doors. The indignities the victim suffers, the exposure to
the elements and to casual eyes, anger you if your job permits you anger.
Often, at indoor homicides, evidences of a victim's unpleasant personal practices,
and the victim's own victims--- beaten spouses, abused children--- crowd around to
whisper that the dead one had it coming, and many times he did.
But nobody had this coming. Here they had not even their skins as they lay on
littered riverbanks amid the outboard-oil bottles and sandwich bags that are our common
squalor. The cold-weather ones largely retained their faces. Starling reminded herself that
their teeth were not bared in pain, that turtles and fish in the course of feeding had created
that expression. Bill peeled the torsos and mostly left the limbs alone.
They wouldn't have been so hard to look at, Starling thought, if this airplane cabin
wasn't so warm and if the damned plane didn't have this crawly yaw as one prop caught
the air better than the other, and if the God damned sun didn't splinter so on the scratched
windows and jab like a headache.
It's possible to catch him. Starling squeezed on that thought to help herself sit in
this ever-smaller airplane cabin with her lap full of awful information. She could help
stop him cold. Then they could put this slightly sticky, smooth-covered file back in the
drawer and turn the key on it.
She stared at the back of Crawford's head. If she wanted to stop Buffalo Bill she
was in the right crowd. Crawford had organized successful hunts for three serial
murderers. But not without casualties. Will Graham, the keenest hound ever to run in
Crawford's pack, was a legend at the Academy; he was also a drunk in Florida now with
a face that was hard to look at, they said.
Maybe Crawford felt her staring at the back of his head. He climbed out of the
copilot's seat. The pilot touched the trim wheel as Crawford came back to her and
buckled in beside her. When he folded his sunglasses and put on his bifocals, she felt she
knew him again.
When he looked from her face to the report and back again, something passed
behind his face and was quickly gone. A more animated mug than Crawford's would have
shown regret.
"I'm hot, are you hot?" he said. "Bobby, it's too damned hot in here," he called to
the pilot. Bobby adjusted something and cold air came in. A few snowflakes formed in
the moist cabin air and settled in Starling's hair.
Then it was Jack Crawford hunting, his eyes like a bright winter day.
He opened the file to a map of the Central and Eastern United States. Locations
where bodies had been found were marked on the map--- a scattering of dots as mute and
crooked as Orion.
Crawford took a pen from his pocket and marked the newest location, their
objective.
"Elk River, about six miles below U.S. 79," he said. "We're lucky on this one. The
body was snagged on a trotline--- a fishing line set out in the river. They don't think she's
been in the water all that long. They're bringing her to Potter, the county seat. I want to
know who she is in a hurry so we can sweep for witnesses to the abduction. We'll send
the prints back on a land line as soon as we get 'em." Crawford tilted his head to look at
Starling through the bottoms of his glasses. "Jimmy Price says you can do a floater."
"Actually, I never had an entire floater," Starling said. "I fingerprinted the hands
Mr. Price got in his mail every day. A good many of them were from floaters, though."
Those who have 'never been under Jimmy Price's supervision believe him to be a
lovable curmudgeon. Like most curmudgeons, he is really a mean old man. Jimmy Price
is a supervisor in Latent Prints at the Washington lab. Starling did time with him as a
Forensic Fellow.
"That Jimmy," Crawford said fondly. "What is it they call that job..."
"The position is called 'lab wretch,' or some people prefer 'Igor'--- that's what's
printed on the rubber apron they give you."
"That's it."
"They tell you to pretend you're dissecting a frog."
"I see---"
"Then they bring you a package from UPS. They're all watching--- some of them
hurry back from coffee, hoping you'll barf. I can print a floater very well. In fact---"
"Good, now look at this. His first victim that we know of was found in the
Blackwater River in Missouri, outside of Lone Jack, last June. The Bimmel girl, she'd
been reported missing in Belvedere, Ohio, on April 15, two months before. We couldn't
tell a lot about it--- it took another three months just to get her identified. The next one he
grabbed in Chicago the third week in April. She was found in the Wabash in downtown
Lafayette, Indiana, just ten days after she was taken, so we could tell what had happened
to her. Next we've got a white female, early twenties, dumped in the Rolling Fork near I65, about thirty-eight miles south of Louisville, Kentucky. She's never been identified.
And the Varner woman, grabbed in Evansville, Indiana, and dropped in the Embarras just
below Interstate 70 in eastern Illinois.
"Then he moved south and dumped one in the Conasauga below Damascus,
Georgia, down from Interstate 75, that was this Kittridge girl from Pittsburgh--- here's her
graduation picture. His luck's ungodly--- nobody's ever seen him make a snatch. Except
for the dumps being near an Interstate, we haven't seen any pattern."
"If you trace heaviest-traffic routes backward from the dump sites, do they
converge at all?"
"No."
"What if you... postulate... that he's making a dropoff and a new abduction on the
same trip?" Starling asked, carefully avoiding the forbidden word assume. "He'd drop off
the body first, wouldn't he, in case he got in trouble grabbing the next one? Then, if he
was caught grabbing somebody, he might get off for assault, plead it down to zip if he
didn't have a body in his car. So how about drawing vectors backward from each
abduction site through the previous dump site? You've tried it."
"That's a good idea, but he had it too. If he is doing both things in one trip, he's
zigging around. We've run computer simulations, first with him westbound on the
Interstates, then eastbound, then various combinations with the best dates we can put on
the dumps and abductions. You put it in the computer and smoke comes out. He lives in
the East, it tells us. He's not in a moon cycle, it tells us. No convention dates in the cities
correlate. Nothing but feathers. No, he's seen us coming, Starling."
"You think he's too careful to be a suicide."
Crawford nodded. "Definitely too careful. He's found out how to have a
meaningful relationship now, and he wants to do it a lot. I'm not getting my hopes up for
a suicide."
Crawford passed the pilot a cup of water from a thermos. He gave one to Starling
and mixed himself an Alka-Seltzer.
Her stomach lifted as the airplane started down.
"Couple of things, Starling. I look for first-rate forensics from you, but I need
more than that. You don't say much, and that's okay, neither do I. But don't ever feel
you've got to have a new fact to tell me before you can bring something up. There aren't
any silly questions. You'll see things that I won't, and I want to know what they are.
Maybe you've got a knack for this. All of a sudden we've got this chance to see if you
do."
Listening to him, her stomach lifting and her expression properly rapt, Starling
wondered how long Crawford had known he'd use her on this case, how hungry for a
chance he had wanted her to be. He was a leader, with a leader's frank-and-open bullshit,
all right.
"You think about him enough, you see where he's been, you get a feel for him,"
Crawford went on. "You don't even dislike him all the time, hard as that is to believe.
Then, if you're lucky, out of all the stuff you know, part of it plucks at you, tries to get
your attention. Always tell me when something plucks, Starling.
"Listen to me, a crime is confusing enough without the investigation mixing it up.
Don't let a herd of policemen confuse you. Live right behind your eyes. Listen to
yourself. Keep the crime separate from what's going on around you now. Don't try to
impose any pattern or symmetry on this guy. Stay open and let him show you.
"One other thing: an investigation like this is a zoo. It's spread out over a lot of
jurisdictions, and a few are run by losers. We have to get along with them so they won't
hold out on us. We're going to Potter, West Virginia. I don't know about these people
we're going to. They may be fine or they may think we're the revenuers."
The pilot lifted an earphone away from his head and spoke over his shoulder.
"Final approach, Jack. You staying back there?"
"Yeah," Crawford said. "School's out, Starling."
CHAPTER 12
Now here is the Potter Funeral Home, the largest white frame house on Potter
Street in Potter, West Virginia, serving as the morgue for Rankin County. The coroner is
a family physician named Dr. Akin. If he rules that a death is questionable, the body is
sent on to Claxton Regional Medical Center in the neighboring county, where they have a
trained pathologist.
Clarice Starling, riding into Potter from the airstrip in the back of a sheriff's
department cruiser, had to lean up close to the prisoner screen to hear the deputy at the
wheel as he explained these things to Jack Crawford.
A service was about to get under way at the mortuary. The mourners in their
country Sunday best filed up the sidewalk between leggy boxwoods and bunched on the
steps, waiting to get in. The freshly painted house and the steps had, each in its own
direction, settled slightly out of plumb.
In the private parking lot behind the house, where the hearses waited, two young
deputies and one old one stood with two state troopers under a bare elm. It was not cold
enough for their breath to steam.
Starling looked at these men as the cruiser pulled into the lot, and at once she
knew about them. She knew they came from houses that had chifforobes instead of
closets and she knew pretty much what was in the chifforobes. She knew that these men
had relatives who hung their clothes in suitbags on the walls of their trailers. She knew
that the older deputy had grown up with a pump on the porch and had waded to the road
in the muddy spring to catch the school bus with his shoes hanging around his neck by
the laces, as her father had done. She knew they had carried their lunches to school in
paper sacks with grease spots on them from being used over and over and that after lunch
they folded the sacks and slipped them in the back pockets of their jeans.
She wondered how much Crawford knew about their them.
There were no handles on the inside of the rear doors in the cruiser, as Starling
discovered when the driver and Crawford got out and started toward the back of the
funeral home. She had to bat on the glass until one of the deputies beneath the tree saw
her, and the driver came back red-faced to let her out.
The deputies watched her sidelong as she passed. One said "ma'am." She gave
them a nod and a smile of the correct dim wattage as she went to join Crawford on he
back porch.
When she was far enough away, one of the younger deputies, a newlywed,
scratched beneath his jaw and said, "She don't look half as good as she thinks she does."
"Well, if she just thinks she looks pretty got-damned good, I'd have to agree with
her, myself," the other young deputy said. "I'd put her on like a Mark Five gas mask."
"I'd just as soon have a big watermelon, if it was cold," the older deputy said, half
to himself.
Crawford was already talking to the chief deputy, a small, taut man in steelrimmed glasses and the kind of elastic-sided boots the catalogs call "Romeos."
They had moved into the funeral home's dim back corridor, where a Coke
machine hummed and random odd objects stood against the wall--- a treadle sewing
machine, a tricycle, and a roll of artificial grass, a striped canvas awning wrapped around
its poles. On the wall was a sepia print of Saint Cecilia at the keyboard. Her hair was
braided around her head, and roses tumbled onto the keys out of thin air.
"I appreciate your letting us know so fast, Sheriff," Crawford said.
The chief deputy wasn't having any. "It was somebody from the district attorney's
office called you," he said. "I know the sheriff didn't call you--- Sheriff Perkins is on a
guided tour of Hawaii at the present time with Mrs. Perkins. I spoke to him on long
distance this morning at eight o'clock, that's three A.M., Hawaii time. He'll get back to
me later in the day, but he told me Job One is to find out if this is one of our local girls. It
could be something that outside elements has just dumped on us. We'll tend to that before
we do anything else. We've had 'em haul bodies here all the way from Phenix City,
Alabama."
"That's where we can help you, Sheriff. If---"
"I've been on the phone with the field services commander of the state troopers in
Charleston. He's sending some officers from the Criminal Investigation Section--- what's
known as the CIS. They'll give us all the backup we need." The corridor was filling with
deputy sheriffs and troopers; the chief deputy had too much of an audience. "We'll get
around to you just as soon as we can, and extend you ever courtesy, work with you ever
way we can, but right now---"
"Sheriff, this kind of a sex crime has some aspects that I'd rather say to you just
between us men, you understand what I mean?" Crawford said, indicating Starling's
presence with a small movement. of his head. He hustled the smaller man into a cluttered
office off the hall and closed the door. Starling was left to mask her umbrage before the
gaggle of deputies. Her teeth hard together, she gazed on Saint Cecilia and returned the
saint's ethereal smile while eavesdropping through the door. She could hear raised voices,
then scraps of a telephone conversation. They were back out in the hall in less than four
minutes.
The chief deputy's mouth was tight. "Oscar, go out front and get Dr. Akin. He's
kind of obliged to attend those rites, but I don't think they've got started out there yet. Tell
him we've got Claxton on the phone."
The coroner, Dr. Akin, came to the little office and stood with his foot on a chair,
tapping his front teeth with a Good Shepherd fan while he had a brief telephone
conference with the pathologist in Claxton. Then he agreed to everything.
So, in an embalming room with cabbage roses in the wallpaper and a picture
molding beneath its high ceiling, in a white frame house of a type she understood, Clarice
Starling met with her first direct evidence of Buffalo Bill.
The bright green body bag, tightly zipped, was the only modern object in the
room. It lay on an old-fashioned porcelain embalming table, reflected many times in the
glass panes of cabinets holding trochars and packages of Rock-Hard Cavity Fluid.
Crawford went to the car for the fingerprint transmitter while Starling unpacked
her equipment on the drainboard of a large double sink against the wall.
Too many people were in the room. Several deputies, the chief deputy, all had
wandered in with them and showed no inclination to leave. It wasn't right. Why didn't
Crawford come on and get rid of them?
The wallpaper billowed in a draft, billowed inward as the doctor turned on the
big, dusty vent fan.
Clarice Starling, standing at the sink, needed now a prototype of courage more apt
and powerful than any Marine parachute jump. The image came to her, and helped her,
but it pierced her too:
Her mother, standing at the sink, washing blood out of her father's hat, running
cold water over the hat, saying, "We'll be all right Clarice. Tell your brothers and sister
to wash up and come to the table. We need to talk and then we'll fix our supper. "
Starling took off her scarf and tied it over her hair like a mountain midwife. She
took a pair of surgical gloves out of her kit. When she opened her mouth for the first time
in Potter, her voice had more than its normal twang and the force of it brought Crawford
to the door to listen. "Gentlemen. Gentlemen! You officers and gentlemen! Listen here a
minute. Please. Now let me take care of her." She held her hands before their faces as she
pulled on the gloves. "There's things we need to do for her. You brought her this far, and
I know her folks would thank you if they could. Now please go on out and let me take
care of her."
Crawford saw them suddenly go quiet and respectful and urge each other out in
whispers: "Come on, Jess. Let's go out in the yard." And Crawford saw that the
atmosphere had changed here in the presence of the dead: that wherever this victim came
from, whoever she was, the river had carried her into the country, and while she lay
helpless in this room in the
country, Clarice Starling had a special relationship to her. Crawford saw that in
this place Starling was heir to the granny women, to the wise women, the herb healers,
the stalwart country women who have always done the needful, who keep the watch and
when the watch is over, wash and dress the country dead.
Then there were only Crawford and Starling and the doctor in the room with the
victim, Dr. Akin and Starling looking at each other with a kind of recognition. Both of
them were oddly pleased, oddly abashed.
Crawford took a jar of Vicks VapoRub out of his pocket and offered it around.
Starling watched to see what to do, and when Crawford and the doctor rubbed it around
the rims of their nostrils, she did too.
She dug her cameras out of the equipment bag on the drainboard, her back to the
room. Behind her she heard the zipper of the body bag go down.
Starling blinked at the cabbage roses on the wall, took a breath and let it out. She
turned around and looked at the body on the table.
"They should have put paper bags on her hands," she said. "I'll bag them when
we're through." Carefully, overriding the automatic camera to bracket her exposures,
Starling photographed the body.
The victim was a heavy-hipped young woman sixty-seven inches long by
Starling's tape. The water had leached her gray where the skin was gone, but it had been
cold water and she clearly hadn't been in it more than a few days. The body was flayed
neatly from a clean line just below the breasts to the knees, about the area that would be
covered by a bullfighter's pants and sash.
Her breasts were small and between them, over the sternum, was the apparent
cause of death, a ragged, star-shaped wound a hand's breadth across.
Her round head was peeled to the skull from just above the eyebrows and ears to
the nape.
"Dr. Lecter said he'd start scalping," Starling said.
Crawford stood with his arms folded while she took the pictures. "Get her ears
with the Polaroid," was all he said.
He went so far as to purse his lips as he walked around the body. Starling peeled
off her glove to trail her finger up the calf of the leg. A section of the trotline and treble
fishhooks that had entangled and held the body in the moving river was still wrapped
around the lower leg.
"What do you see, Starling?"
"Well, she's not a local--- her ears are pierced three times each, and she wore
glitter polish. Looks like town to me. She's got maybe two weeks or so hair growth on her
legs. And see how soft it's grown in? I think she got her legs waxed. Armpits too. Look
how she bleached the fuzz on her upper lip. She was pretty careful about herself, but she
hasn't been able to take care of it for a while."
"What about the wound?''
"I don't know," Starling said. "I would have said an exit gunshot wound, except
that looks like part of an abrasion collar and a muzzle stamp at the top there."
"Good, Starling. It's a contact entrance wound over the sternum. The explosion
gases expand between the bone and the skin and blow out the star around the hole."
On the other side of the wall a pipe organ wheezed as the service got under way in
the front of the funeral home.
"Wrongful death," Dr. Akins contributed, nodding his head. "I've got to get in
there for at least part of this service. The family always expects me to go the last mile.
Lamar will be in here to help you as soon as he finishes playing the musical offering. I
take you at your word on preserving evidence for the pathologist at Claxton, Mr.
Crawford."
"She's got two nails broken off here on the left hand," Starling said when the
doctor was gone. "They're broken back up in the quick and it looks like dirt or some hard
particles driven up under some of the others. Can we take evidence?"
"Take samples of grit, take a couple of flakes of polish," Crawford said. "We'll
tell 'em after we get the results."
Lamar, a lean funeral home assistant with a whiskey bloom in the middle of his
face, came in while she was doing it. "You must of been a manicurist one time," he said.
They were glad to see the young woman had no fingernail marks in her palms---
an indication that, like the others, she had died before anything else was done to her.
"You want to print her facedown, Starling?" Crawford said.
"Be easier."
"Let's do teeth first, and then Lamar can help us turn her over."
"Just pictures, or a chart?" Starling attached the dental kit to the front of the
fingerprint camera, privately relieved that all the parts were in the bag.
"Just pictures," Crawford said. "A chart can throw you off without X rays. We can
eliminate a couple of missing women with the pictures."
Lamar was very gentle with his organist's hands, opening the young woman's
mouth at Starling's direction and retracting her lips while Starling placed the one-to-one
Polaroid against the face to get details of the front teeth. That part was easy, but she had
to shit the molars with a palatal reflector, watching from the side for the glow through the
cheek to be sure the strobe around the lens was lighting the inside of the mouth. She had
only seen it done in a forensics class.
Starling watched the first Polaroid print of the molars develop, adjusted the
lightness control and tried again. This print was better. This one was very good.
"She's got something in her throat," Starling said.
Crawford looked at the picture. It showed a dark cylindrical object just behind the
soft palate. "Give me the flashlight."
"When a body comes out of the water, a lot of times there's like leaves and things
in the mouth," Lamar said, helping Crawford to look.
Starling took some forceps out of her bag. She looked at Crawford across the
body. He nodded. It only took her a second to get it.
"What is it, some kind of seed pod?" Crawford said.
"Nawsir, that's a bug cocoon," Lamar said. He was right.
Starling put it in a jar.
"You might want the county agent to look at that," Lamar said.
Facedown, the body was easy to fingerprint. Starling had been prepared for the
worst--- but none of the tedious and delicate injection methods or finger stalls were
necessary. She took the prints on thin card stock held in a device shaped like a shoehorn.
She did a set of plantar prints as well, in case they had only baby footprints from a
hospital for reference.
Two triangular pieces of skin were missing from high on the shoulders. Starling
took pictures.
"Measure too," Crawford said. "He cut the girl from Akron when he slit her
clothes off, not much more than a scratch, but it matched the cut up the back of her
blouse when they found it beside the road. This is something new, though. I haven't seen
this."
"Looks like a burn across the back of her calf," Starling said.
"Old people gets those a lot," Lamar said.
"What?" Crawford said.
"I SAID OLD PEOPLE GETS THOSE A LOT."
"I heard you fine, I want you to explain it. What about old people?"
"Old people pass away with a heating pad on them, and when they're dead it burns
them, even when it's not all that hot. You burn under a heating pad when you're dead. No
circulation under it."
"We'll ask the pathologist at Claxton to test it, and see if it's postmortem,"
Crawford said to Starling.
"Car muffler, most likely," Lamar said.
"What?"
"CAR MUFFL--- car muffler. One time Billy Petrie got shot to death and they
dumped him in the trunk of his car? His wife drove the car around two or three days
looking for him. When they brought him in here, the muffler had got hot under the car
trunk and burned him just like that, only across his hip," Lamar said. "I can't put groceries
in the trunk of my car for it melting the ice cream."
"That's a good thought, Lamar, I wish you worked for me," Crawford said. "Do
you know the fellows that found her in the river?"
"Jabbo Franklin and his brother, Bubba."
"What do they do?"
"Fight at the Moose, make fun of people that's not bothering them--- someone just
comes in the Moose after a simple drink, worn out from looking at the bereaved all day,
and it's 'Set down there, Lamar, and play "Filipino Baby." ' Make a person play 'Filipino
Baby' over and over on that sticky old bar piano. That's what Jabbo likes. 'Well, make up
some damn words if you don't know it,' he says, 'and make the damn thing rhyme this
time.' He gets a check from the Veterans and goes to dry out at the VA around Christmas.
I been looking for him on this table for fifteen years."
"We'll need serotonin tests on the fishhook punctures," Crawford said. "I'm
sending the pathologist a note."
"Them hooks are too close together," Lamar said.
"What did you say?"
"The Franklins was running a trotline with the hooks too close together. It's a
violation. That's prob'ly why they didn't call it in until this morning."
"The sheriff said they were duck hunters."
"I expect they did tell him that," Lamar said. "They'll tell you they wrestled Duke
Keomuka in Honolulu one time too, tag team with Satellite Monroe. You can believe that
too, if you feel like it. Grab a croaker sack and they'll take you on a snipe hunt too, if you
favor snipe. Give you a glass of billiards with it."
"What do you think happened, Lamar?"
"The Franklins was running this trotline, it's their trotline with these unlawful
hooks, and they was pulling it up to see if they had any fish."
"Why do you think so?"
"This lady's not near ready to float."
"No."
"Then if they hadna been pulling up on the trotline they never would have found
her. They prob'ly went off scared and finally called in. I expect you'll want the game
warden in on this."
"I expect so," Crawford said.
"Lots of times they've got a crank telephone behind the seat in their Ramcharger,
that's a big fine right there, if you don't have to go to the pen."
Crawford raised his eyebrows.
"To telephone fish with," Starling said. "Stun the fish with electric current when
you hang the wires in the water and turn the crank. They come to the top and you just dip
'em out."
"Right," Lamar said, "are you from around here?"
"They do it lots of places," Starling said.
Starling felt the urge to say something before they zipped up the bag, to make a
gesture or express some kind of commitment. In the end, she just shook her head and got
busy packing the samples into her case.
It was different with the body and problem out of sight. In this slack moment,
what she'd been doing came in on her. Starling stripped off her gloves and turned the
water on in the sink. With her back to the room, she ran water over her wrists. The water
in the pipes wasn't all that cool. Lamar, watching, disappeared into the hall. He came
back from the Coke machine with an ice-cold can of soda, unopened, and offered it to
her.
"No, thanks," Starling said. "I don't believe I'll have one."
"No, hold it under your neck there," Lamar said, "and on that little bump at the
back of your head. Cold'll make you feel better. It does me."
By the time Starling had finished taping the memo to the pathologist across the
zipper of the body bag, Crawford's fingerprint transmitter was clicking on the office desk.
Finding this victim so soon after the crime was a lucky break. Crawford was
determined to identify her quickly and start a sweep around her home for witnesses to the
abduction. His method was a lot of trouble to everyone, but it was fast.
Crawford carried a Litton Policefax fingerprint transmitter. Unlike federal-issue
facsimile machines, the Policefax is compatible with most big-city police department
systems. The fingerprint card Starling had assembled was barely dry.
"Load it, Starling, you've got the nimble fingers."
Don't smear it was what he meant, and Starling didn't. It was hard, wrapping the
glued-together composite card around the little drum while six wire rooms waited around
the country.
Crawford was on the telephone to the FBI switchboard and wire room in
Washington. "Dorothy, is everybody on? Okay, gentlemen, we'll turn it down to onetwenty to keep it nice and sharp--- check one-twenty, everybody? Atlanta, how about it?
Okay, give me the picture wire... now."
Then it was spinning at slow speed for clarity, sending the dead woman's prints
simultaneously to the FBI wire room and major police department wire rooms in the East.
If Chicago, Detroit, Atlanta, or any of the others got a hit on the fingerprints, a sweep
would begin in minutes.
Next Crawford sent pictures of the victim's teeth and photos of her face, the head
draped by Starling with a towel in the event the supermarket press got hold of the
photographs.
Three officers of the West Virginia State Police Criminal Investigation Section
arrived from Charleston as they were leaving. Crawford did a lot of handshaking, passing
out cards with the National Crime Information Center hotline number. Starling was
interested to see how fast he got them into a male bonding mode. They sure would call up
with anything they got, they sure would. You betcha and much oblige. Maybe it wasn't
male bonding, she decided; it worked on her too.
Lamar waved with his fingers from the porch as Crawford and Starling rode away
with the deputy toward the Elk River. The Coke was still pretty cold. Lamar took it into
the storeroom and fixed a refreshing beverage for himself.
CHAPTER 13
"Drop me at the lab, Jeff," Crawford told the driver. "Then I want you to wait for
Officer Starling at the Smithsonian. She'll go on from there to Quantico."
"Yes sir."
They were crossing the Potomac River against the after-dinner traffic, coming
into downtown Washington from National Airport.
The young man at the wheel seemed in awe of Crawford and drove with excessive
caution, Starling thought. She didn't blame him; it was an article of faith at the Academy
that the last agent who'd committed a Full Fuck-Up in Crawford's command now investigated pilfering at DEW-line installations along the Arctic Circle.
Crawford was not in a good humor. Nine hours had passed since he transmitted
the fingerprints and pictures of the victim, and she remained unidentified. Along with the
West Virginia troopers, he and Starling had worked the bridge and the riverbank until
dark without result.
Starling had heard him on the phone from the airplane, arranging for an evening
nurse at home.
The FBI plain-Jane sedan seemed wonderfully quiet after the Blue Canoe, and
talking was easier.
"I'll post the hotline and the Latent Descriptor Index when I take your prints up to
ID," Crawford said. "You draft me an insert for the file. An insert, not a 302--- do you
know how to do it?"
"I know how."
"Say I'm the Index, tell me what's new."
It took her a second to get it together--- she was glad Crawford seemed interested
in the scaffolding on the Jefferson Memorial as they passed by.
The Latent Descriptor Index in the Identification Section's computer compares the
characteristics of a crime under investigation to the known proclivities of criminals on
file. When it finds pronounced similarities, it suggests suspects and produces their
fingerprints. Then a human operator compares the file fingerprints with latent prints
found at the scene. There were no prints yet on Buffalo Bill, but Crawford wanted to be
ready.
The system requires brief, concise statements. Starling tried to come up with
some.
"White female, late teens or early twenties, shot to death, lower torso and thighs
flayed---"
"Starling, the Index already knows he kills young white women and skins their
torsos--- use 'skinned,' by the way, 'flayed' is an uncommon term another officer might
not use, and you can't be sure the damned thing will read a synonym. It already knows he
dumps them in rivers. It doesn't know what's new here. What's new here, Starling?"
"This is the sixth victim, the first one scalped, the first one with triangular patches
taken from the back of the shoulders, the first one shot in the chest, the first one with a
cocoon in her throat."
"You forgot broken fingernails."
"No sir, she's the .second one with broken fingernails."
"You're right. Listen, in your insert for the file, note that the cocoon is
confidential. We'll use it to eliminate false confessions."
"I'm wondering if he's done that before--- placed a cocoon or an insect," Starling
said. "It would be easy to miss in an autopsy, especially with a floater. You know, the
medical examiner sees an obvious cause of death, it's hot in there, and they want to get
through... can we check back on that?"
"If we have to. You can count on the pathologists to say they didn't miss anything,
naturally. The Cincinnati Jane Doe's still in 'the freezer out there. I'll ask them to look at
her, but the other four are in the ground. Exhumation orders stir people up. We had to do
it with four patients who passed away under Dr. Lecter's care, just to make sure what
killed them. Let me tell you, it's a lot of trouble and it upsets the relatives. I'll do it if I
have to, but we'll see what you find out at the Smithsonian before I decide."
"Scalping... that's rare, isn't it?"
"Uncommon, yes," Crawford said.
"But Dr. Lecter said Buffalo Bill would do it. How did he know that?"
"He didn't know it."
"He said it, though."
"It's not a big surprise, Starling. I wasn't surprised to see that. I should have said
that it was rare until the Mengel case, remember that? Scalped the woman? There were
two or three copycats after that. The papers, when they were playing around with the
Buffalo Bill tag, they emphasized more than once that this killer doesn't take scalps. It's
no surprise after that--- he probably follows his press. Lecter was guessing. He didn't say
when it would happen, so he could never be wrong. If we caught Bill and there was no
Scalping, Lecter could say we got him just before he did it."
"Dr. Lecter also said Buffalo Bill lives in a two-story house. We never got into
that. Why do you suppose he said it?"
"That's not a guess. He's very likely right, and he could have told you why, but he
wanted to tease you with it. It's the only weakness I ever saw in him--- he has to look
smart, smarter than anybody. He's been doing it for years."
"You said ask if I don't know--- well, I have to ask you to explain that."
"Okay, two of the victims were hanged, right? High ligature marks, cervical
displacement, definite hanging. As Dr. Lecter knows from personal experience, Starling,
it's very hard for one person to hang another against his will. People hang themselves
from doorknobs all the time. They hang themselves sitting down, it's easy. But it's hard to
hang somebody else--- even when they're bound up, they manage to get their feet under
them, if there's any support to find with their feet. A ladder's threatening. Victims won't
climb it blindfolded and they sure won't climb it if they can see the noose. The way it's
done is in a stairwell. Stairs are familiar. Tell them you're taking them up to use the
bathroom, whatever, walk them up with a hood on, slip the noose on, and boot them off
the top step with the rope fastened to the landing railing. It's the only good way in a
house. Fellow in California popularized it. If Bill didn't have a stairwell, he'd kill them
another way. Now give me those names, the senior deputy from Potter and the state
police guy, the ranking officer."
Starling found them in her notepad, reading by a penlight held in her teeth.
"Good," Crawford said. "When you're posting a hotline, Starling, always credit
the cops by name. They hear their own names, they get more friendly to the hotline.
Fame helps them remember to call us if they get something. What does the burn on her
leg say to you?"
"Depends if it's postmortem."
"If it is?"
"Then he's got a closed truck or a van or a station wagon, something long."
"Why?"
"Because the burn's across the back of her calf."
They were at Tenth and Pennsylvania, in front of the new FBI headquarters that
nobody ever refers to as the J. Edgar Hoover Building.
"Jeff, you can let me out here," Crawford said. "Right here, don't go underneath.
Stay in the car, Jeff, just pop the trunk. Come show me, Starling."
She got out with Crawford while he retrieved his datafax and briefcase from the
luggage compartment.
"He hauled the body in something big enough for the body to be stretched out on
its back," Starling said. "That's the only way the back of her calf would rest on the floor
over the exhaust pipe. In a car trunk like this, she'd be curled up on her side and---"
"Yeah, that's how I see it," Crawford said.
She realized then that he'd gotten her out of the car so he could speak with her
privately.
"When I told that deputy he and I shouldn't talk in front of a woman, that burned
you, didn't it?"
"Sure."
"It was just smoke. I wanted to get him by himself."
"I know that."
"Okay." Crawford slammed the trunk and turned away.
Starling couldn't let it go.
"It matters, Mr. Crawford."
He was turning back to her, laden with his fax machine and briefcase, and she had
his full attention.
"Those cops know who you are," she said. "They look at you to see how to act."
She stood steady, shrugged her shoulders, opened her palms. There it was, it was true.
Crawford performed a measurement on his cold scales.
"Duly noted, Starling. Now get on with the bug."
"Yes sir."
She watched him walk away, a middle-aged man laden with cases and rumpled
from flying, his cuffs muddy from the riverbank, going home to what he did at home.
She would have killed for him then. That was one of Crawford's great talent

CHAPTER 14
The Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History had been closed for
hours, but Crawford had called ahead and a guard waited to let Clarice Starling in the
Constitution Avenue entrance.
The lights were dimmed in the closed museum and the air was still. Only the
colossal figure of a South Seas chieftain facing the entrance stood tall enough for the
weak ceiling light to shine on his face.
Starling's guide was a big black man in the neat turnout of the Smithsonian
guards. She thought he resembled the chieftain as he raised his face to the elevator lights.
There was a moment's relief in her idle fancy, like rubbing a cramp.
The second level above the great stuffed elephant, a vast floor closed to the
public, is shared by the departments of Anthropology and Entomology. The anthropologists call it the fourth floor. The entomologists contend it is the third. A few
scientists from Agriculture say they have proof that it is the sixth. Each faction has a case
in the old building with its additions and subdivisions.
Starling followed the guard into a dim maze of corridors walled high with wooden
cases of anthropological specimens. Only the small labels revealed their contents.
"Thousands of people in these boxes," the guard said. "Forty thousand
specimens."
He found office numbers with his flashlight and trailed the light over the labels as
they went along.
Dyak baby carriers and ceremonial skulls gave way to Aphids, and they left Man
for the older and more orderly world of Insects. Now the corridor was walled with big
metal boxes painted pale green.
"Thirty million insects--- and the spiders on top of that. Don't lump the spiders in
with the insects," the guard advised. "Spider people jump all over you about that. There,
the office that's lit. Don't try to come out by yourself. If they don't say they'll bring you
down, call me at this extension, it's the guard office. I'll come get you." He gave her a
card and left her.
She was in the heart of Entomology, on a rotunda gallery high above the great
stuffed elephant. There was the office with the lights on and the door open.
"Time, Pilch!" A man's voice, shrill with excitement. "Let's go here. Time!"
Starling stopped in the doorway. Two men sat at a laboratory table playing chess.
Both were about thirty, one black-haired and lean, the other pudgy with wiry red hair.
They appeared to be engrossed in the chessboard. If they noticed Starling, they gave no
sign. If they noticed the enormous rhinoceros beetle slowly making its way across the
board, weaving among the chessmen, they gave no sign of that either.
Then the beetle crossed the edge of the board.
"Time, Roden," the lean one said instantly.
The pudgy one moved his bishop and immediately turned the beetle around and
started it trudging back the other way.
"If the beetle just cuts across the corner, is time up then?" Starling asked.
"Of course time's up then," the pudgy one said loudly, without looking up. "Of
course it's up then. How do you play? Do you make him cross the whole board? Who do
you play against, a sloth?"
"I have the specimen Special Agent Crawford called about."
"I can't imagine why we didn't hear your siren," the pudgy one said. "We're
waiting all night here to identify a bug for the FBI. Bugs're all we do. Nobody said
anything about Special Agent Crawford's specimen. He should show his specimen
privately to his family doctor. Time, Pitch!"
"I'd love to catch your whole routine another time," Starling said, "'but this is
urgent, so let's do it now. Time, Pitch."
The black-haired one looked around at her, saw her leaning against the doorframe
with her briefcase. He put the beetle on some rotten wood in a box and covered it with a
lettuce leaf.
When he got up, he was tall.
"I'm Noble Pilcher," he said. "That's Albert Roden. You need an insect identified?
We're happy to help you." Pilcher had a long friendly face, but his black eyes were a little
witchy and too close together, and one of them had a slight cast that made it catch the
light independently. He did not offer to shake hands. "You are...?"
"Clarice Starling."
"Let's see what you've got."
Pilcher held the small jar to the light.
Roden came to look. "Where did you find it? Did you kill it with your gun? Did
you see its mommy?"
It occurred to Starling how much Roden would benefit from an elbow smash in
the hinge of his Jaw.
"Shhh, " Pilcher said. "Tell us where you found it. Was it attached to anything--- a
twig or a leaf--- or was it in the soil?"
"I see," Starling said. "Nobody's talked to you."
"The Chairman asked us to stay late and identify a bug for the FBI," Pilcher said.
"Told us," Roden said. "Told us to stay late."
"We do it all the time for Customs and the Department of Agriculture," Pilcher
said.
"But not in the middle of the night," Roden said.
"I need to tell you a couple of things involving a criminal case," Starling said.
"I'm allowed to do that if you'll keep it in confidence until the case is resolved. It's
important. It means some lives, and I'm not just saying that. Dr. Roden, can you tell me
seriously that you'll respect a confidence?"
"I'm not a doctor. Do I have to sign anything?"
"Not if your word's any good. You'll have to sign for the specimen if you need to
keep it, that's all."
"Of course I'll help you. I'm not uncaring."
"Dr. Pilcher?"
"That's true," Pilcher said. "He's not uncaring."
"Confidence?"
"I won't tell."
"Pilch isn't a doctor yet either," Roden said. "We're on an equal educational
footing. But notice how he allowed you to call him that." Roden placed the tip of his
forefinger against his chin, as though pointing to his judicious expression. "Give us all
the details. What might seem irrelevant to you could be vital information to an expert."
"This insect was found lodged behind the soft palate of a murder victim. I don't
know how it got there. Her body was in the Elk River in West Virginia, and she hadn't
been dead more than a few days."
"It's Buffalo Bill, I heard it on the radio," Roden said.
"You didn't hear about the insect on the radio, did you?" Starling said.
"No, but they said Elk River--- are you coming in from that today, is that why
you're so late?"
"Yes," Starling said.
"You must be tired, do you want some coffee?" Roden said.
"No, thank you."
"Water?"
"No."
"A Coke?"
"I don't believe so. We want to know where this woman was held captive and
where she was killed. We're hoping this bug has some specialized habitat, or it's limited
in range, you know, or it only sleeps on some kind of tree--- we want to know where this
insect is from. I'm asking for your confidence because--- if the perpetrator put the insect
there deliberately---then only he would know that fact and we could use it to eliminate
false confessions and save time. He's killed six at least. Time's eating us up."
"Do you think he's holding another woman right this minute, while we're looking
at his bug?" Roden asked in her face. His eyes were wide and his mouth open. She could
see into his mouth, and she flashed for a second on something else.
"I don't know." A little shrill, that. "I don't know," she said again, to take the edge
off it. "He'll do it again as soon as he can."
"So we'll do this as soon as we can," Pilcher said. "Don't worry, we're good at
this. You couldn't be in better hands." He removed the brown object from the jar with a
slender forceps and placed it on a sheet of white paper beneath the light. He swung a
magnifying glass on a flexible arm over it.
The insect was long and it looked like a mummy. It was sheathed in a
semitransparent cover that followed its general outlines like a sarcophagus. The
appendages were bound so tightly against the body, they might have been carved in low
relief. The little face looked wise.
"In the first place, it's not anything that would normally infest a body outdoors,
and it wouldn't be in the water except by accident," Pilcher said. "I don't know how
familiar you are with insects or how much you want to hear."
"Let's say I don't know diddly. I want you to tell me the whole thing."
"Okay, this is a pupa, an immature insect, in a chrysalis--- that's the cocoon that
holds it while it transforms itself from a larva into an adult," Pilcher said.
"Obtect pupa, Pilch?" Roden wrinkled his nose to hold his glasses up.
"Yeah, I think so. You want to pull down Chu on the immature insects? Okay,
this is the pupal stage of a large insect. Most of the more advanced insects have a pupal
stage. A lot of them spend the winter this way."
"Book or look, Pilch?" Roden said.
"I'll look." Pilcher moved the specimen to the stage of a microscope and hunched
over it with a dental probe in his hand. "Here we go: No distinct respiratory organs on the
dorsocephalic region, spiracles on the mesothorax and some abdominals, let's start with
that."
 "Ummhumm," Roden said, turning pages in a small manual. "Functional
mandibles?"
"Nope."
"Paired galeae of maxillae on the ventro meson?"
"Yep, yep."
"Where are the antennae?"
"Adjacent to the mesal margin of the wings. Two pairs of wings, the inside pair
are completely covered up. Only the bottom three abdominal segments are free. Little
pointy cremaster--- I'd say Lepidoptera."
"That's what it says here," Roden said.
"It's the family that includes the butterflies and moths. Covers a lot of territory,"
Pilcher said.
"It's gonna be tough if the wings are soaked. I'll pull the references," Roden said.
"I guess there's no way I can keep you from talking about me while I'm gone."
"I guess not," Pilcher said. "Roden's all right," he told Starling as soon as Roden
left the room.
"I'm sure he is."
"Are you now." Pilcher seemed amused. "We were undergraduates together,
working and glomming any kind of fellowship we could. He got one where he had to sit
down in a coal mine waiting for proton decay. He just stayed in the dark too long. He's all
right. Just don't mention proton decay."
"I'll try to talk around it."
Pilcher turned away from the bright light. "It's a big family, Lepidoptera. Maybe
thirty thousand butterflies and a hundred thirty thousand moths. I'd like to take it out of
the chrysalis--- I'll have to if we're going to narrow it down."
"Okay. Can you do it in one piece?"
"I think so. See, this one had started out on its own power before it died. It had
started an irregular fracture in the chrysalis right here. This may take a little while."
Pilcher spread the natural split in the case and eased the insect out. The bunched
wings were soaked. Spreading them was like working with a wet, wadded facial tissue.
No pattern was visible.
Roden was back with the books.
"Ready?" Pitcher said. "Okay, the prothoracic femur is concealed."
"What about pilifers?"
"No pilifers," Pitcher said. "Would you turn out the light, Officer Starling?"
She waited by the wall switch until Pilcher's penlight came on. He stood back
from the table and shined it on the specimen. The insect's eyes glowed in the dark,
reflecting the narrow beam.
"Owlet," Roden said.
"Probably, but which one?" Pilcher said. "Give us the lights, please. It's a
Noctuid, Officer Starling--- a night moth. How many Noctuids are there, Roden?"
"Twenty-six hundred and... about twenty-six hundred have been described.
"Not many this big, though. Okay, let's see you shine, my man."
Roden's wiry red head covered the microscope.
"We have to go to chaetaxy now--- studying the skin of the insect to narrow it
down to one species," Pitcher said. "Roden's the best at it."
Starling had the sense that a kindness had passed in the room.
Roden responded by starting a fierce argument with Pilcher over whether the
specimen's larval warts were arranged in circles or not. It raged on through the arrangement of the hairs on the abdomen.
"Erebus odora," Roden said at last.
"Let's go look," Pilcher said.
They took the specimen with them, down in the elevator to the level just above
the great stuffed elephant and back into an enormous quad filled with pale green boxes.
What was formerly a great hall had been split into two levels with decks to provide more
storage for the Smithsonian's insects. They were in Neotropical now, moving into
Noctuids. Pilcher consulted his notepad and stopped at a box chest--- high in the great
wall stack.
"You have to be careful with these things," he said, sliding the heavy metal door
off the box and setting it on the floor. "You drop one on your foot and you hop for
weeks."
He ran his finger down the stacked drawers, selected one, and pulled it out.
In the tray Starling saw the tiny preserved eggs, the caterpillar in a tube of
alcohol, a cocoon peeled away from a specimen very similar to hers, and the adult--- a
big brown-black moth with a wingspan of nearly six inches, a furry body, and slender
antennae.
'Erebus odora," Pitcher said. "The Black Witch Moth."
Roden was already turning gages. "'A tropical species sometimes straying up to
Canada in the fall," he read. " `The larvae eat acacia, catclaw, and similar plants.
Indigenous West Indies, Southern U.S., considered a pest in Hawaii.' "
Fuckola, Starling thought. "Nuts," she said aloud, "They're all over."
"But they're not all over all the time." Pilcher's head was down. He pulled at his
chin. "Do they double-brood, Roden?"
"Wait a second... yeah, in extreme south Florida and south Texas."
"When?"
"May and August."
"I was just thinking," Pilcher said. "Your specimen's a little better developed than
the one we have, and it's fresh. It had started fracturing its cocoon to come out. In the
West Indies or Hawaii, maybe, I could understand it, but it's winter here. In this country it
would wait three months to come out. Unless it happened accidentally in a greenhouse, or
somebody raised it."
"Raised it how?"
"In a cage, in a warm place, with some acacia leaves for the larvae to eat until
they're ready to button up in their cocoons. It's not hard to do."
"Is it a popular hobby? Outside professional study, do a lot of people do it?"
"No, primarily it's entomologists trying to get a perfect specimen, maybe a few
collectors. There's the silk industry too, they raise moths, but not this kind."
"Entomologists must have periodicals, professional journals, people that sell
equipment," Starling said.
"Sure, and most of the publications come here."
"Let me make you a bundle," Roden said. "A couple of people here subscribe
privately to the smaller newsletters---keep 'em locked up and make you give them a
quarter just to look at the stupid things. I'll have to get those in the morning."
"I'll see they're picked up, thank you, Mr. Roden."
Pilcher photocopied the references on Erebus odora and gave them to her, along
with the insect. "I'll take you down," he said.
They waited for the elevator. "Most people love butterflies and hate moths," he
said. "But moths are more--- interesting, engaging."
"They're destructive."
"Some are, a lot are, but they live in all kinds of ways. Just like we do." Silence
for one floor. "There's a moth, more than one in fact, that lives only on tears," he offered.
"That's all they eat or drink."
"What kind of tears? Whose tears?"
"The tears of large land mammals, about our size. The old definition of moth was
'anything that gradually, silently eats, consumes, or wastes any other thing.' It was a verb
for destruction too... Is this what you do all the time--- hunt Buffalo Bill?"
"I do it all I can."
Pilcher polished his teeth, his tongue moving behind his lips like a cat beneath the
covers. "Do you ever go out for cheeseburgers and beer or the amusing house wine?"
"Not lately."
"Will you go for some with me now? It's not far."
"No, but I'll treat when this is over--- and Mr. Roden can go too, naturally."
"There's nothing natural about that," Pilcher said. And at the door, "I hope you're
through with this soon, Officer Starling."
She hurried to the waiting car.
Ardelia Mapp had left Starling's mail and half a Mounds candy bar on her bed.
Mapp was asleep.
Starling carried her portable typewriter down to the laundry room, put it on the
clothes-folding shelf and cranked in a carbon set. She had organized her notes on Erebus
odora in her head on the ride back to Quantico and she covered that quickly.
Then she ate the Mounds and wrote a memo to Crawford suggesting they crosscheck the entomology publications' computerized mailing lists against the FBI's known
offender files and the files in the cities closest to the abductions, plus felon and sexoffender files of Metro Dade, San Antonio, and Houston, the areas where the moths were
most plentiful.
There was another thing, too, that she had to bring up for a second time: Lets ask
Dr. Lecter why he thought the perpetrator would start taking scalps.
She delivered the paper to the night duty officer and fell into her grateful bed, the
voices of the day still whispering, softer than Mapp's breathing across the room. On the
swarming dark she saw the moth's wise little face. Those glowing eyes had looked at
Buffalo Bill.
Out of the cosmic hangover the Smithsonian leaves came her last thought and a
coda for her day: Over this odd world, this half the world that's dark now, I have to hunt
a thing that lives on tears.
CHAPTER 15
In East Memphis, Tennessee, Catherine Baker Martin and her best boyfriend were
watching a late movie on television in his apartment and having a few hits off a bong
pipe loaded with hashish. The commercial breaks grew longer and more frequent.
"I've got the munchies, want some popcorn?" she said.
"I'll go get it, give me your keys."
"Sit still. I need to see if Mom called, anyway."
She got up from the couch, a tall young woman, big-boned and well fleshed,
nearly heavy, with a handsome face and a lot of clean hair. She found her shoes under the
coffee table and went outside.
The February evening was more raw than cold. A light fog off the Mississippi
River hung breast-high over the big parking area. Directly overhead she could see the
dying moon, pale and thin as a bone fishhook. Looking up made her a little dizzy. She
started across the parking field, navigating steadily toward her own front door a hundred
yards away.
The brown panel truck was parked near her apartment, among some motor homes
and boats on trailers.
She noticed it because it resembled the parcel delivery trucks which often brought
presents from her mother.
As she passed near the truck, a lamp came on in the fog. It was a floor lamp with
a shade, standing on the asphalt behind the truck. Beneath the lamp was an overstuffed
armchair in red-flowered chintz, the big red flowers blooming in the fog. The two items
were like a furniture grouping in a showroom.
Catherine Baker Martin blinked several times and kept going. She thought the
word surreal and blamed the bong. She was all right. Somebody was moving in or
moving out. In. Out. Somebody was always moving at the Stonehinge Villas. The curtain
stirred in her apartment and she saw her cat on the sill, arching and pressing his side
against the glass.
She had her key ready, and before she used it she looked back. A man climbed out
of the back of the truck. She could see by the lamplight that he had a cast on his hand and
his arm was in a sling. She went inside and locked the door behind her.
Catherine Baker Martin peeped around the curtain and saw the man trying to put
the chair into the back of the truck. He gripped it with his good hand and tried to boost it
with his knee. The chair fell over. He righted it, licked his finger and rubbed at a spot of
parking-lot grime on the chintz.
She went outside.
"Help you with that." She got the tone just right--- helpful and that's all.
"Would you? Thanks." An odd, strained voice. Not a local accent.
The floor lamp lit his face from below, distorting his features, but she-could see
his body plainly. He had on pressed khaki trousers and some kind of chamois shirt,
unbuttoned over a freckled chest. His chin and cheeks were hairless, as smooth as a
woman's, and his eyes only pinpoint gleams above his cheekbones in the shadows of the
lamp.
He looked at her too, and she was sensitive to that. Men were often surprised at
her size when she got close to them and some concealed it better than others.
"Good," he said.
There was an unpleasant odor about the man, and she noticed with distaste that
his chamois shirt still had hairs on it, curly ones across the shoulders and beneath the
arms.
It was easy lifting the chair onto the low floor of the truck.
"Let's slide it to the front, do you mind?" He climbed inside and moved some
clutter, the big flat pans you can slide under a vehicle to drain the oil, and a small hand
winch called a coffin hoist.
They pushed the chair forward until it was just behind the seats.
"Are you about a fourteen?" he said.
"What?"
"Would you hand me that rope? It's just at your feet."
When she bent to look, he brought the plaster cast down on the back of her head.
She thought she'd bumped her head and she raised her hand to it as the cast came down
again, smashing her fingers against her skull, and down again, this time behind her ear, a
succession of blows, none of them too hard, as she slumped over the chair. She slid to the
floor of the truck and lay on her side.
The man watched her for a second, then pulled off his cast and the arm sling.
Quickly, he brought the lamp into the truck and closed the rear doors.
He pulled her collar back and, with a flashlight, read the size tag on her blouse.
"Good," he said.
He slit the blouse up the back with a pair of bandage scissors, pulled the blouse
off, and handcuffed her hands behind her. Spreading a mover's pad on the floor of the
truck, he rolled her onto her back.
She was not wearing a brassiere. He prodded her big breasts with his fingers and
felt their weight and resilience.
"Good," he said.
There was a pink suck mark on her left breast. He licked his finger to rub it as he
had done the chintz and nodded when the lividity went away with light pressure. He
rolled her onto her face and checked her scalp, parting her thick hair with his fingers. The
padded cast hadn't cut her.
He checked her pulse with two fingers on the side of her neck and found it strong.
"Gooood, " he said. He had a long way to drive to his two-story house and he'd
rather not field-dress her here.
Catherine Baker Martin's cat watched out the window as the truck pulled away,
the taillights getting closer and closer together.
Behind the cat the telephone was ringing. The machine in the bedroom answered,
its red light blinking in the dark.
The caller was Catherine's mother, the junior U.S. Senator from Tennessee.
CHAPTER 16
In the 1980s, the Golden Age of Terrorism, procedures were in place to deal with
a kidnapping affecting a member of Congress:
At 2:45 A.M. the special agent in charge of the Memphis FBI office reported to
headquarters in Washington that Senator Ruth Martin's only daughter had disappeared.
At 3:00 A.M. two unmarked vans pulled out of the damp basement garage at the
Washington field office, Buzzard's Point. One van went to the Senate Office Building,
where technicians placed monitoring and recording equipment on the telephones in
Senator Martin's office and put a Title 3 wiretap on the pay phones closest to the
Senator's office. The Justice Department woke the most junior member of the Senate
Select Intelligence Committee to provide the obligatory notice of the tap.
The other vehicle, an "eyeball van" with one-way glass and surveillance
equipment, was parked on Virginia Avenue to cover the front of the Watergate West,
Senator Martin's Washington residence. Two of the van's occupants went inside to install
monitoring equipment on the Senator's home telephones.
Bell Atlantic estimated the mean trace time at seventy seconds on any ransom call
placed from a domestic digital switching system.
The Reactive Squad at Buzzard's Point went to double shifts in the event of a
ransom drop in the Washington area. Their radio procedure changed to mandatory
encryption to protect any possible ransom drop from intrusion by news helicopters--- that
kind of irresponsibility on the part of the news business was rare, but it had happened.
The Hostage Rescue Team went to an alert status one level short of airborne.
Everyone hoped Catherine Baker Martin's disappearance was a professional
kidnapping for ransom; that possibility offered the best chance for her survival.
Nobody mentioned the worst possibility of all.
Then, shortly before dawn in Memphis, a city patrolman investigating a prowler
complaint on Winchester Avenue stopped an elderly man collecting aluminum cans and
junk along the shoulder of the road. In his cart the patrolman found a woman's blouse,
still buttoned in front. The blouse was slit up the back like a funeral suit. The laundry
mark was Catherine Baker Martin's.
----------
Jack Crawford was driving south from his home in Arlington at 6:30 A.M. when
the telephone in his car beeped for the second time in two minutes.
"Nine twenty-two forty."
"Forty stand by for Alpha 4."
Crawford spotted a rest area, pulled in, and stopped to give his full attention to the
telephone. Alpha 4 is the Director of the FBI.
"Jack--- you up on Catherine Martin?"
"The night duty officer called me just now."
"Then you know about the blouse. Talk to me."
"Buzzard Point went to kidnap alert," Crawford said. "I'd prefer they didn't stand
down yet. When they do stand down I'd like to keep the phone surveillance. Slit blouse or
not, we don't know for sure it's Bill. If it's a copycat he might call for ransom. Who's
doing taps and traces in Tennessee, us or them?"
"Them. The state police. They're pretty good. Phil Adler called from the White
House to tell me about the President's 'intense interest.' We could use a win here, Jack."
"That had occurred to me. Where's the Senator?"
"En route to Memphis. She got me at home a minute ago. You can imagine."
"Yes." Crawford knew Senator Martin from budget hearings.
"She's coming down with all the weight she's got."
"I don't blame her."
"Neither do I," the Director said. "I've told her we're going flat-out, just as we've
done all along. She is... she's aware of your personal situation and she's offered you a
company Lear. Use it--- come home at night if you can."
"Good. The Senator's tough, Tommy. If she tries to run it we'll butt heads."
"I know. Do a set-pick off me if you have to. What have we got at the best--- six
or seven days, Jack?"
"I don't know. If he panics when he finds out who she is--- he might just do her
and dump her."
"Where are you?"
"Two miles from Quantico."
"Will the strip at Quantico take a Lear?"
"Yes."
"Twenty minutes."
"Yes sir."
Crawford punched numbers into his phone and pulled back into traffic.
CHAPTER 17
Sore from a troubled sleep, Clarice Starling stood in her bathrobe and bunny
slippers, towel over her shoulder, waiting to get in the bathroom she and Mapp shared
with the students next door. The news from Memphis on the radio froze her for half a
breath.
"Oh God," she said. "Oh boy. ALL RIGHT IN THERE! THIS BATHROOM IS
SEIZED. COME OUT WITH YOUR PANTS UP. THIS IS NOT A DRILL!" She
climbed into the shower with a startled next-door neighbor. "Ooch over, Gracie, and
would you pass me that soap."
Ear cocked to the telephone, she packed for overnight and set her forensic kit by
the door. She made sure the switchboard knew she was in her room and gave up breakfast
to stick by the phone. At ten minutes to class time, with no word, she hurried down to Behavioral Science with her equipment.
"Mr. Crawford left for Memphis forty-five minutes ago," the secretary told her
sweetly. "Burroughs went, and Stafford from the lab left from National."
"I put a report here for him last night. Did he leave any message for me? I'm
Clarice Starling."
"Yes, I know who you are. I have three copies of your telephone number right
here, and there are several more on his desk, l believe. No, he didn't leave a thing for you,
Clarice." The woman looked at Starling's luggage. "Would you like me to tell him
something when he calls in?"
"Did he leave a Memphis phone number on his three-card?"
"No, he'll call with it. Don't you have classes today, Clarice? You're still in
school, aren't you?"
"Yes. Yes, I am."
Starling's entry, late, into the classroom was not eased by Gracie Pitman, the
young woman she had displaced in the shower. Gracie Pitman sat directly behind
Starling. It seemed a long way to her seat. Gracie Pitmans tongue had time to make two
full-revolutions in her downy cheek before Starling could submerge into the class.
With no breakfast she sat through two hours of "The Good-Faith Warrant
Exception to the Exclusionary Rule in Search and Seizure," before she could get to the
vending machine and chug a Coke.
She checked her box for a message at noon and there was nothing. It occurred to
her then, as it had on a few other occasions in her life, that intense frustration tastes very
much like the patent medicine called Fleet's that she'd had to take as a child.
Some days you wake up changed. This was one for Starling, she could tell. What
she had seen yesterday at the Potter Funeral Home had caused in her a small tectonic
shift.
Starling had studied psychology and criminology in a good school. In her life she
had seen some of the hideously offhand ways in which the world breaks things. But she
hadn't really known, and now she knew: sometimes the family of man produces, behind a
human face, a mind whose pleasure is what lay on the porcelain table at Potter, West
Virginia, in the room with the cabbage roses. Starling's first apprehension of that mind
was worse than anything she could see on the autopsy scales. The knowledge would lie
against her skin forever, and she knew she had to form a callus or it would wear her
through.
The school routine didn't help her. All day she had the feeling that things were
going on just over the horizon. She seemed to hear a vast murmur of events, like the
sound from a distant stadium. Suggestions of movement unsettled her, groups passing in
the hallway, cloud shadows moving over, the sound of an airplane.
After class Starling ran too many laps and then she swam. She swam until she